254th day [boxed in]					           	           Tuesday Morning Jan 1, 1946
8:00 a.m.		
Good Morning, Darling,
			Has that New Year arrived there yet? No? Well it’ll be there pretty soon. At the moment we’re at elevation 8000 feet and we’re a couple of hours or a little more from Tokyo. The navigator was just back here and he said that the pilot has agreed to fly over the city a little bit to take a look at it providing the weather is not too bad so we’ve got our fingers crossed hoping for clear skies. The airport where we land is several miles south of Tokyo and if we go directly there we’ll not see the city at all from the air.
			If we do fly over the city I shall try to take some pictures from the plane’s windows on the chance that some of them might show a little something/ We’re told that Fujiyama shows up nicely on the way in will try to photograph it.
			We were flying above an unbroken bank of clouds this morning when the sun came up but now the cloud bank is broken in places and one can see the sea.
			There are only 16 passengers on the plane – 2 are officers, one is a scientific consultant (physicist, a Japanese), and there are 13 enlisted men. I don’t know to what duty the other enlisted men are assigned. They appear to be a little bit better group of men than the average lot. 
			New Years Eve back at the field at Guam was quite unexciting. At twelve o’clock there was a little shouting and someone shot off a few signal flares and there was some shooting in the far distance, but that was about all.

Wednesday Morning Jan 2, 1946
11:00 a.m. Tokyo Time	
My dearest One;
		We’re at our office – there’s much to write but right now I haven’t the opportunity. I want to send my address at once however – here it is. What a whopper. Could you buy a bunch of air mail envelopes and type the address on them and send them to Mother and Dad? I’m certain they would appreciate it very much.
		The Rose Bowl game is coming over the radio seems very funny. Colder than the dickens here yesterday – a little warmer today but temperatures still around freezing.

Pvt. R.H. Mahard 35985568
Intell. Div., OCE, GHQ, AFPAC		OCE = Office Chief Engineers
Advance Echelon, Tokyo, Japan		GHQ = General Headquarters
A.P.O. 500, San Francisco, California	AFPAC = Army Forces Pacific
[address is written in a box]

										Yours
											Dick



255th Day 							Wednesday Night, Jan. 2, 1945

My Dearest One,
			I Scarcely know where to start to tell the long story. Perhaps I’d better begin at the beginning - that’s always a safe thing to do. I’ll trace the events in skeleton form and then fill in the details afterwards.

			We landed at Atsugi airport (about 30 miles from downtown Tokyo) at about 9:00 (Tokyo time) yesterday morning. Before our baggage was taken off the plane and the bus came along to take us into the city an hour had passed. The ride in from the airport was very, very interesting. We passed through some quiet rural areas with their tiny and very neat fields and saw some very fascinating dwelling places. It was difficult at first to believe that what we were seeing was really true - the farms looked like pictures from a book and the people appeared to be fugitives from a Madame Butterfly opera company because yesterday was their New Year’s day also and also in Japan on that day everyone has a birthday; consequently the children and the women were dressed in their best and very colorful finery!

			We arrived finally in Yokahama and began to see the signs of the destruction by the fire-bombing. I can’t really describe it to you - at first it doesn’t seem real either - for blocks and blocks and miles and miles - we guessed it to be about eight miles - along the road we traveled and as far back from the road as we could see at least 3/4 of the buildings had been destroyed. It’s very amazing for often times all the places in a block may be destroyed save one and very peculiarly that one may appear to be a very inflammable building. The people have picked up a lot of the metal scrap and many have used fragments of corrugated iron sheeting to build up a little shack and there they live, the children play around the door, and the tea pot boils on a tiny fire. It was bitter cold yesterday - the temperature must have been about 28 degrees or so and there was a biting wind - and yet we saw many people in wooden clogs (the ones held on by a strap which runs between their big toe and their second toe) with no stockings of any sort!
			
			We saw the same kind of distraction all the way into downtown Tokyo. The bus delivered us to the A.T.C. Terminal and we were disappointed that there was no one there to meet us. As long as the other fellows had arrived on Monday, we thought they’d meet us & help us get settled down. T’was not so (we discovered later that Ed. had inquired about us but when he found hout we hadn’t arrived, he concluded that we had not gotten away from Guam). However we managed. We went to the Dai Ichi building where General MacArthur has his headquarters and after telling our story in about five different places, we finally found the right person. He sent us over to another building - the Finance Building - where we are to live. We couldn’t be assigned to a room right then because of course it was a holiday, but they put us up as a “casual”. After Larry and I got settled down a little bit we went out for a walk to try to find the Captains. We asked at a couple of places where we thought they might possibly be billeted but they weren’t there. However, just as we were leaving one place we ran into Captain Shute on the street. He welcomed us cordially, but had little to tell us except to meet him at 9:00 this morning. By that time we were so cold that we went back to our quarters which, incidentally, were just a little warmer and had a very good New Year’s dinner - turkey, mashed potatoes, peas, dressing, gravy, fruit cake, mince pie, ice cream, bread and gobs of butter. (We eat from trays but have to use our own knife, fork, spoon and cup from our mess gear and wash them after we finish - don’t have to wash the trays just our own stuff) Right after we finished eating we sent a cable home. Remember to write and tell me when the cable arrived will you! It cost me 13 yen to send it - there are 15 yen to the dollar!

			After we got back to where we were quarters (in the same building where we ate and sent the cable) Ed came along. He told us some dope about where we would be living etc. etc. We sat around and talked for a while and then Larry and I decided to go to bed because we were completely tired. It was only about 8:00 and there was a lot of noise in the room, but nevertheless I soon went to sleep and slept quite soundly until about 5:30 this morning. Lay awake a while and then decided to get up. The only place in the building where there is hot water available is in the basement where the showers are located so I went down there to shave. Drew some water from a shower into a helmet I found, sat the helmet in a regular lavatory basin (no hot water connected to the basin, or course) and had myself quite a comfotable shave although the temberature of the air in the room was pretty low - could see my breath without any trouble.

			When I got back from shaving, I got Larry up and we had an early and very good breakfast - I had three fried eggs, orange juice (canned), oatmeal (with thinned condensed milk–not bad), cinnamon roll, bread and butter, fresh tangerines (native Japanese grown ones), coffee (condensed milk-am learning to like it!) After breakfast we fussed around with our junk - more or less arranged our duffel bags. Finally came over to our office about 8:30. The captains were here and after a while they went into conference they told is that it had been decided that they would not be getting set up in a office themeselves until about the 20th of this month meanwhile until then the three of us are to work around this other office. Don’t quite know yet what we will have to do, but think that my duties to a large extent will involve typing! But that doesn’t surprise anyone does it? Weren’t we pretty sure all along that this assignment was going to lead to that?

			We were given the afternoon off to get settles down in our quarters and dinally managaed it. We still are not all in the same room, but we think we will be very soon because one of the fellows in a bed next to Larry’s and mine is going to be going home.

			Later this afternoon, we went for a little walk around the city. I’ll write about some of the things there are to see in another letter.
			Have been working on this letter at the office tonight. Right now though a couple of boys have offered to buy me a bottle of beer and I think I’ll take them up on it.

			I’m afraid that this letter hasn’t told the entire story very well but I’ll get it all told very soon. Oh, golly Hon, I wish I were going to be getting some letters from you a little sooner than I am - get the letters here just ass soon as you possibly can, won’t you?

		Love you so very much!

				Your Dick forever






























		256th day							January 3, 1946
									Tokyo, Japan
Dearest One,
			Going to try tonight to write a letter which will please me a little more than the one I wrote last night. There was os much to say, and I’m afraid I didn’t say it very well, but sooner or later I’ll manage to explain the situation here so that it will mean a little something to you.

			Today’s story is a relatively simple one t orelate. I got up early again and went downstairs to the shower room and drew some warm water in the helmet I found and did my shaving. It;s a cold journey to make after arising from a warm bed but it’s a dickens of a lot better than shaving in cold water. For breakfast we has to come over to the Dai Ichi building which is about five long blocks from the Finance Bld’g where we live. However, first we had to come up here to the office right next door to the Dai Ichi called the Forestry Building. Considerable stair climbing or elevator riding is necessary in all these trips because our office is on the fifth floor and the cafeteria is on the seventh floor (we live on the fourth floor of the Finace building)

			After we brought our utensils back to the office but didn’t stay to work. They has told us yesterday that we could have today off to get settled. We didn’t really need time but took it anyway. We spent most of the morning walking around the city or what is left of the city. The “5th Avenue” of Tokyo is a street called Ginza; we walked along it. Most of the buildings which are still standing are completely gutted by fire and a great many buildings are gone completely. However, the owners or someone else are making, a “comeback”; they’re begining to erect small single story wooden buildings is very interesting. They’re being built almost entirely without nails very nearly as barns were built in the midwest of the U.S. around 1850 or so. The beams are notched and jointed so that they fit together and then are fastened by drilling a hole and inserting a wooden peg. The wood from which these buildings is being built 
is largely cedar. The boys and I remarked that in a few months if this kind of construction continues, Tokyo will look about as it must have looked a hundred years ago. At the present time there is a very little for sale in any shops and what is being displayed is pretty shoddy looking to my way of thinking. A lot of the stuff looks as though it had been manufactures in the cheapest fashion ans sent here to Tokyo to be sold to unsuspecting G.I.s. It’s funny the stuff looks just about like the cheap stuff the Japs formerly manufactured for export to the U.S. The Army operates a big P.X. in the downtown section where they have some very nice things for sale, but a person has to sweat out a line several blocks long to get into the place. After we’ve been here a while and had a chance to accumulate a few yen perhaps we’ll try to get in the place.

			After dinner we again did some wandering around the city and we’re more and more appalled at the destruction. It’s very peculiar - it almost looks as though our Army had picked out the buildings they wanted to occupy and said to the bombers, “be careful not to hurt that one!” It looks that way because right beside the DaiIchi building and the Forestry building and Finance building are other buildings completely destroyed. We can look out the windows of the room in which we live and see destroyed buildings on three sides!

			Our meals continue to be very excellent. We had steak for dinner today and roast beef for supper tonight. Had Parkerhouse type rolls which were very flavorful. Tonight there was a big bin of apples and tangerines sitting in the mess hall and a person could take as many as he wished. If the meals continue to be so good, I’m afraid that weight of mine will go up and up! I can’t help but think though that it’s a dream and can’t last.

			The weather was clear and cold during most of the day today, but this evening it clouded up and is now raining just a little bit. The building where we live is quite cold, however, our room happens to be a little warmer than the average because the sun shines in so nicely. They’re trying to get radiators installed in the place and are making progress. In many of the buildings here in the main part of town the Japanese had completely removed the radiators and all the plumbing to melt it down for scrap metal - that’s how bad off they were. One fellow told us that it had been done even before last winter (1944-45); I don’t know how the people managed to work in the buildings without any heat at all, but they do seem to be able to stand a lot of cold - makes me shiver to see them.

			We haven’t seen General MacArthur yet but we have his car outside the Daiichi building a couple of times and a crowd always gathers - Japs and soldiers alike to see him come out. Would like to catch a glimpse of him one of these days. Believe me he’s really the big boss around here and make no mistake about that!

			Incidentally the U.S. Geological Survey me have offices in the same building where ours is located. They’re on the second floor. We haven't seen any of them yet, but we probably will one of these days. I suppose Ginny Neuschel will work there. Holy smoke, how I wish you could change places with her!

			Have gotten some new clothes since I arrived. I traded in that old field jacket for another one of those good ones, traded in my blouse for one of the short “Eisenhower” models, and was issued a sweater which will be excellent to wear to work. The attitude the supply sergeant takes with regard to issuing clothes here is certainly different than the attitude they take in the states.

			I’m certainly wondering how long it’s going to be before we receive any mail. Thought today that I might cable my adress - may still do it because you’ll probably mot receive the letter I sent containing the address before Jan. 10 or so and then it’ll take your letters ten more days to get here. Did I tell you that they will not guarantee that a cable will go through in less than 48 hours? But then that’s some quicker than mail, isn’t it?

			Guess I didn’t say that I went to a movie tonight. The movies are shown in the auditorium of the DaiIchi building and are free - the picture was called “The Hidden Eye” and it was pretty poor. They have movies only three nights a week there, but they also have movies at the Finance building on three other nights so except for one night there’s a movie to see.

			Think now that it’s time to stop and go home and get to bed. Have to arise early to get in my shaving ritual and tomorrow we start work at long last.

			And so goodnight, my dearest one, just because you’re so far away I don’t love you less - love you more and will continue to love you more and more forever.

								Your,
				
									Dick






















	257th day 								Tokyo, Japan
										January 4, 1946

My dearest Marian,

			My day today was similar to a great many of your days when you were working in Dayton. I spent about eight hours doing two hours of work which involved typing a rather long “first indorsement” on a letter and making some “true and certified” copies of some orders. But, I guess I did learn a little bit about military correspondence and that’s what I’m supposed to be doing. In between times I managed to get a letter written to Mother 



































This will be our divider!!!!! Leave this page blank

		344th day							Monday, April1, 1946

Dear Marian,

		This will perhaps come as a shock to you but I’ve decided to call off my application for discharge and have enlisted in the Army for three years! I could have had furlough home, but decided that it wouldn’t be worth the bother.

		AND THAT – MY DEAREST MARIAN – IS THE MOST COLOSSAL APRIL FOOL’S DAY STATEMENT WHICH WAS EVER MADE!

		I’m tired tonight and for a very strange reason – I’ve been working hard all day! And I want you to know that I’m not accustomed to it. The tips of my fingers are sore from continual typing (you’ll laugh) and my shoulders ache and my bottom is tender from so much sitting! There was sort of a rush on all day – first there was the monthly report to get out – original and seven of four sheets, then there was some correspondence to take care of, some envelopes to address, and this afternoon I had to make 30 copies for Colonel Berry of the orders which were written on him and Colonel Northrup. I made them in sets of ten, I was quite proud of myself because I thought I had gotten through the four “runs” with only a single error; then I discovered that I had left out a whole phrase on one of the runs – I had forgotten to type in “Chief of Staff” under a man’s name. Well, I decided that was easily corrected so I put the carbons all back in and got the assemblage back in the machine. Typed in the words “Chief of Staff” and then, yes, you guessed it, I had the put the carbons in backwards! Oh, well, live and learn! 

		Don’t know for certain just when the Colonels and the Captains and Ed and General Loper of OCE and Colonel Hoehl of Air Forces will be taking off, but Wednesday is the day most frequently talked of. Think General Loper is the one who is holding up the plans right at the moment. [arrow pointing to ‘General Loper’] ED’S TRAVELLING IN FAST COMPANY

		Sent a cable to you this morning. Theoretically it should reach you about eight o’clock Monday evening, April 1 your time. How much did it miss? The text was as follows: COLONEL INDORSED APPLICATION GOES WASHINGTON NOW AM OPTIMISTIC SEND FLOWERS RACHELS HOME FOR MARKEY AND ED AND US LOVE YOU DICK – is that about the way it came through. Am wondering if you’ll think the “Markey” is a mistake, or have you become aware through my references to her that that is what Ed always calls her. As a matter of fact, Markey and all of you probably are aware of that too. But back to the flowers, I thought of the idea first and asked Ed what he thought and he was enthusiastic. I explained that it would be more convenient for you to send them because the telegram wouldn’t cost quite so much and beside Alice will probably keep you pretty well informed about when Rachel plans to return home. I thought it would be nice to send the flowers to her home because she’ll have more flowers in the hospital than she’ll be able to enjoy. Ed wrote to Markey last night that I was sending the cable and she’ll be writing to you to find out what their share of the cost will be. 
[written in the margin] IN OTHER WORDS MARKEY AND ED MARIAN AND DICK 
		By the way, Larry got his telephone call all approved today. He’s to make it at 9:40 in the morning of April 12; that’ll be 7:40 in the evening of the 11th in Baltimore. Larry figures that that is about two or three days after Rachel will have arrived home from the hospital. Golly, I hope the connection turns out to be a good one – I don’t know what kind of a guarantee they give!

		I was sorta hoping that there would be some word from the office of the Headquarters Commandant today with regard to that memorandum which they have to fill out regarding my records – the memo which has to go in with the Colonel’s first indorsement of my discharge application. But there was no word – I think, however, in this case no news is good news because if they were going to question the think they’d have probably done that before now. It looks to me as though the thing is now being “bucked” to the Personnel Officer and he’s probably trying to find my records. It’ll be a minor miracle – perhaps a major one – if my records haven’t been lost or at least part of them. Lost records seem to be a rule in the Army – one of the least frequently broken rules too! But, at any rate, I’m hoping that the memorandum will be back in a few days and then I can send the application and the first indorsement on its way to Washington.

		Of course, there’s also Prof. Kerr’s letter which is missing and I’ll have to wait for it. Let’s see you cabled that that letter arrived in Granville on the 24th of March. If you took some action by Monday, March 25 and if the letter gets aboard a plane, I should be hearing about the middle of this week – I hope! Wow, hope that letter doesn’t get placed aboard a ship the way that Feb. 8 letter which I wrote to the Dean did.

		As you’ve already guessed there was no mail here today. I suspect that the planes were all grounded because of that typhoon which has been messing around to the south of here. Hope the storm soon blows itself out! Incidentally the main office of APO 500 as of today moved to the north end first floor of the Mitsubishi Main Building (our billet) so now we just have to go across the alley to pick up our mail. Formerly as you know, we had to go four or five blocks down to the Dai Ichi Bldg. The new post office is very nice and spacious – the other one was very, very crowded!

		Ed has some excitement today. Colonel Duke for whom he’s been working at OCE asked him what he’d have to have in the way of a promotion before he’d consider transferring to OCE to continue the report writing. Ed was all set for the Colonel and said that he’d consider coming down if they’d make him a Warrant Officer! Ed thought for sure that the Colonel would laugh at the suggestion, but he never batted an eye – instead he said, “Well, we’ll see what can be done!” And he put one of the Captains down at OCE to work on the deal at once. And then Ed was in a dilemma – if the Colonel should succeed in getting him a Warrant it would me that he’d be in the Army at least two years (he’d be in the same category as officers) and Ed couldn’t decide whether it would be worth his while (there would have been no question in my mind). To make the story short – this afternoon the Captain found out that it would be impossible for them to railroad the thing through even though they did want to do it. So Ed’s problem was solved for him. Wouldn’t that have been some promotion though – from Pvt. (no, T/5) to Warrant Officer! Just shows how rare ability is in the Army! They probably have never had anyone down at the OCE write reports before who could actually use the English language. I think Colonel Duke himself is the only other college man down there and, of course, he’s a “trade school” product (West Point)! 

		And now I’m at the end of my punching for the day – in fact I’m really “punchy” myself. Larry is bound for home – ha, what did I say – home – and I’m going with him. Will add a note below in the morning. Goodnight, Sweetheart, I love you truly and dearly.

								Your,
									Dick
[handwritten]
Tuesday Morn:
	Looks like it’s going to be a nice day Today is pay day too maybe I’ll be able to send home the price of the tail light!
		Love you much
				D.

			345th day				Tuesday, April 2, 1946

My dearest Marian,

		Just home from the movies – “The Road to Utopia” with Bing Crosby and Bob Hope. Really very funny. Those two certainly make a pair who can get away with gags which from anyone else would sound pretty bad! Have you seen the picture? Well at funny thing happened – if you’ve seen it, you’ll remember right toward the last a crack opens in the earth and Bing ends up on one side and Dorothy Lamour and Bob on the other. Well tonight just as the crack was opening up, the reel broke and we had to wait about five minutes for them to fix it! Some place for the thing to break!

		Was reasonably busy all day today again. Did find some time this morning to type out a letter to Mother and Dad and John. Late writing to them this week. I spent most of the afternoon typing out a large blank for Captain Dolk . It was one of those mean jobs with about five hundred little boxes in which a lot of words and numbers etc. had to be fitted and of course the Army had managed to design the blank so that it was just too wide to fit into the typewriter effectively – it could be rolled in to the machine, but it was so wide that far over to the left and far over to the right, one couldn’t type. I managed to type first one side by shifting the paper way over in the opposite direction and than type the other side. That kind of a job just about drives me nuts. Then too, it was a strictly personal job and I sorta resent having to do that sort of thing – makes me feel just like a cheap servant. Both Captain Shute and Captain Dolk have a way of making us feel. that way quite frequently although I suspect that we often feel that way because we're overly sensitive. 

		Received three letters from you today – yours of Mar 20,21,22! It was nice to hear that my letters were coming through to you finally. I'm anxious to receive your letter of the 19th – that was the day you received nine letters. Your big week at receiving letters turned out to be the same as mine. 

		I was certainly interested to receive the memo which the faculty committee took to Cleveland with them for the meeting with the Board of Trustees. Boy, it sounds as though the Faculty is really up on its ear. Shall be very anxious to hear what happened when it happens. I certainly am very curious to know what sort of an offer they will make me for next year, IF I'm destined to be back next year. Those “real” wages statistics of Gordon's certainly are impressive. I would think that a group of men like the Trustees who must themselves be men of pretty high salaries couldn't help but be impressed with the very low amount paid the men of the faculty. In fact I'd think they'd wonder how in the dickens the Faculty manages to live on such low salaries. I'm wondering though how much the Trustees will figure they can do about the situation! It takes a lot of money to bring about a raise in Faculty wages because it's a cost which goes on year after year! 

		The visit you had from Beulah was nice. Bet you were surprised all right. It was lucky that the Dean happened to be out of town so that you could get away from the office!
		I was a little Disturbed to hear in your letter today – yours of the 21st – thought you were having a somewhat difficult time with your dealings with Mr. Nichol. Too bad that there isn't some way you could explain to him that you want a little more freedom of movement and that you'd be happier if he didn't do quite so many nice things for you – too bad you can't tell him that without hurting him, but darned if I know how you can. I know just how he feels – he's getting such a kick out of having someone to do things for again – he must have had to do almost all of the work during those last years that mrs. Nichol was alive! And I can imagine how much less lonely he is now that you're around. Hon, I can appreciate the situation fully, but, except for what I said a couple letters ago, I don't know what to say about it! 

		I received a letter today from Bill Thurston. He and Shirley are apparently in New York City living with Bill’s Mother. Bill was taking some annual leave from the Survey. He said in the letter that he had intended to quit, but had been talked into staying on. Is going to be in Washington this summer working on some reports and will probably have to go back to Kentucky to do some field work. In September he plans to begin an educational furlough from the Survey and will attend Harvard or Columbia for a year to finish up his Ph.D. coursework. In the summer of 1947, he goes back on active status with the Survey and begins a project for them which he will be able to use as a dissertation. Sounds as though he has things pretty well worked out for himself. Bill also writes that he was in New York having his allergies checked (this will interest Franci); he says he got something in his food one night recently which knocked him entirely out – he has taken to carrying a hypodermic needle and adrenalin with him! I'll send Bill’s letter on to you when I've answered it! 

		Sweetheart, today marks an anniversary. Four months ago we said goodbye there at that station in Newark – that's a moment I’ll remember as long as I live – remember it with Dread. Oh, I hope we'll never have another goodbye like that one. Sometimes the four months seem to have gone rapidly and sometimes it seems ages and ages ago! How much longer do you suppose it will be. On August 2 it'll be twice as long as now. Suppose I’ll have made it by then? Oh, my darling, I certainly do hope so. The dream I'm daring to dream right now is that my discharge will have gone through by the first of August. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could have the month for a vacation just before starting work again in September. Incidentally, have you thought when you would take your vacation? How much do you have? A month? Three weeks? You said once, I'm sure, but I've forgotten. [handshift to pen] Has it occurred to you that you might hold off taking your vacation until late in the summer on the chance that I might make it home? How soon do you have to decide when you want your time off. I know of course that it's impossible to make any definite plans, but if I'm to make it at all it will undoubtedly be late in the summer and it would be too bad if you had to work at the time I could be in Michigan. oh well, it's something to think about and dream about. 

		I'm finishing this letter Wednesday morning I was interrupted above and lost my typewriter Captain Dolk is typing out for himself another of the blanks I typed for him yesterday – he didn't have sense enough to realize yesterday that he needed two of them! 

Well, Dolly, it's almost time for the mail and I'd better finish this up so that it can be mailed when we go to the Apo no something? Love you with all my heart. 

Forever yours 
		Dick

			346th day 					April 3, 1946 (Wed)

My Dearest Marian,

		I'm going to start your letter in the afternoon again and see if I have a bit a little bit better luck than I've had the last couple of time I've tried to pull that trick. Seems as though I sit around doing nothing for a couple of hours and then just as soon as I start on a letter of my own about a dozen things need doing. 


Yessir it happened – just as I finished the word “things” above Captain Shute came over and wanted me to do something for him. Have it finished now and will take another whirl at this letter.

 Before I forget it once more here's that withholding receipt on my U.S.G.S. wages back. I wasn't supposed to do anything with that was I. You have never written what you had to do about the Income Tax. What did you file? Did you file just your receipts and if so did you have to pay any tax? Did have anyone help you with it – the return I mean. 

Well, I was interrupted three times while writing the three paragraphs above. Shouldn't be interrupted now though because it's after supper. Will not have many interruptions tomorrow either because in the morning the men leave early for the airport to begin their trip. Right now their plans call for them to be gone until a week from Saturday, but I for one shall be surprised if they make it back by then. They'll be in Okinawa tomorrow night and will fly on to Manila on Friday. Larry and I will have a great time holding down the office. We ought to be able to get away quite a bit – we plan to take turns. I'm hoping to get out into the country to take some pictures of agricultural operations; things ought to be busy now that spring is here! Incidentally, I remember now that I received a letter which told that you had received the film. I shall be anxious for news concerning the developing and concerning the results. Golly, hope that one roll particularly is good. Rachel has sent Larry some of the pictures he took on the way over and they are quite good. Larry reported that Rachel was going to send a copy of the picture he took in Palo Alto of Markey and Ed and me to you – have you ever received it. Perhaps her appointment with the stork interrupted her plans. 

Lying here on my desk is a sample of the “name” stationery which Irene sent you for your birthday. It's nice, Hon, but like you, I miss the “H” in the name. 

Well, today we got paid! I think they made a mistake when they computed the amount which was due me; in fact I know that they made a mistake – they paid me (also Larry and Ed) for the entire month of December at the “overseas” rate when actually we should have received only six days pay at the high rate for that month. They'll probably catch it on the next pay. I was going to keep it a secret and surprise you but instead I'll tell you and let you have the joy of contemplation – I applied for a money order for $90.00 which I'll send to you just as soon as it is made out. What do you think of that? You can use it as you see fit – swell the bank account a little bit or you can take it to Newark and put it down on the Plymouth. The ninety plus your fifty ought to work the balance down toward a thousand. I suppose you're wondering how much pay I drew – the answer is $93.60 (1404 yen). I'm not allowed to send a bigger money order than the amount I have drew so I decided to make it an even ninety! At the new rank (Cpl) I'm hoping to be able to send home forty each month although this next month it may be less than that if they catch the mistake they made this time. Oh, Sweetheart, I've gotten so much of a thrill out of contemplating the new car, and I'm so tickled to be able to contribute this amount toward making it a little more of a reality. 

I want to talk a little more about the car. We’re agreed that we should buy it already equipped with radio and heater. If there are different qualities of radios and heaters, I think we should buy the best. Are we agreed that we will buy the best model – is it the “special”. Do you know exactly how much it differs from the “de-luxe”. If you happen to be in Newark sometime drop into the garage and pick up some literature if it's available and send it to me. I'd enjoy so reading about it and seeing a picture too – don't think I know what the new Plymouths look like. They weren't out when we left the states. Are they selling new cars with five tires or only four – any way of getting five? Incidentally where is the spare tire kept in the five passenger coupe? Is it accessible only from the trunk or can it be gotten out through the front the way the one in Alex could? 

No mail (Whoops! Happened to push the ribbon shift key) from you today. Had a letter from Mother though which was written March 25th! She told about the very nice week-end they had with you. Now I'm anxiously awaiting a letter with your version. I suspect you missed writing one of those nights or perhaps both – is that so? The Folks said that they enjoyed the show on Sat. night a great deal. Mother wrote that she had a new coat – how did you like it – nice that she bought it! Incidentally it sounds as though there's a real beer shortage developing in the States – horrors! Oh, yes, Mother mentioned that they looked at an apartment in which you are interested – is that the one in the house which the Hawes’ are fixing up? Tell me more about it. Big enough for the two of us? I would just checked through your letters and have found your note concerning the Hawes’ place – two Apartments, one three-room and one five-room. The five room one you say may bring as much as $60 – Wow! How much for the three-bedroom? 

No news today again from the Headquarters Commandant on that memo concerning my records. No letter of course from Kerr. I’m growing very anxious to have the application on its way to Washington. Concerning the discharge situation – liked the report that the Senate Military Affairs Committee was apparently of the opinion that the Draft should be continued. As I say, I hate to wish military service onto any one, but on the other hand I hate to wish any additional military service onto me! 

I've just got to write a letter tomorrow to Professor Wright and also one to Dean Richards. I'm certain you will have communicated the news concerning the first indorsement to them, but on the other hand I certainly owe them a letter. 

Just had a little flurry of excitement here. All of a sudden we heard the patter of feet and looked out the window and saw what seemed to be dozens of Japanese Policemen running toward the near-by Tokyo Station. We went out and investigated and discovered that there had been an incident at the station involving some Chinese and Japanese. One of the Japanese had been knifed by the Chinese and the police had attempted to arrest them (the Chinese)  they got into an argument and somebody called out the “riot” squad. Guess there really was no great harm done. It's really amazing how little excitement there is here considering the circumstances. Much more serious crime occurs in any big city in the U.S. I'm sure! 

That's about the story for this time, My Darling, hope I have a letter or two from you tomorrow. Several are due! Love you very much or did I tell you that before? 
				
					Your,

						Dick

347th day					Wednesday, April 4, 1946

My Dearest Marian,

You are a long Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, March 24,25,26 letter arrived today. I have some gaps in my record now – March 18,19 and March 23. 

I certainly enjoyed reading about the week-end with the Folks; sounds as though you did have a nice time. I think I wrote last night that Mother's letter telling about the trip came yesterday (Tuesday). The beer shortage certainly sounds severe – it's things like that which make a man wonder whether he ought not stay over here for two or three years till things in the States get onto an even keel again – yes, you bet!

Something just happened to occur to me. Last night I wrote about the fact that I have been paid and that I received a money order for ninety dollars which I was going to send on to you. I'm wondering now if I explained that I had only applied for the money order and actually wouldn't be receiving it so that I could send it on for several days. I'm worried that what I said in yesterday's letter will make you think it should be enclosed in that letter and you'll think I forgot to inclose it or that it has been lost. Maybe I'd better start over again – I applied for a money order yesterday when I got paid, a money order for ninety dollars; the order will be delivered to me in ten days or so – I'll send it on to you at that time! Got it all straight? 

[handwritten note in margin points at paragraph 2 and says “haven’t I explained this well”]

		Your letter today was the one with the copy of the picture from the Newark Advocate! Golly, some surprise! I can imagine how surprised you were! Yes, I mentioned the fact that there was a photographer aboard that train to Kyoto –  the train which had the ritzy Red Cross club car. They certainly screwed the captain of the picture up, didn't they? “Heading them towards the States for return to civilian life” Yike!! If it were only so!! Didn't I ever mention to you about right after we arrived here in Tokyo, we traded in our long, brass-buttoned blouses (jackets) for the short “Ike” jackets? Bet I did tell you. Want to bet? 

		Yes,you certainly have my curiousity aroused concerning the package you have sent. I'll be watching for it! Let's see, “it's small and matches something you have”! That's easy – it's a pencil to match my pen! Right? Soon now you should be receiving the package I sent from here on March 6. I have some other things I want to get wrapped up one of these days; not many though, haven't been doing much shopping this last month! 

		I liked the news concerning the report which Bitty Biel saw in the Psychology Journal about teachers going to be released. Oh, Sweetheart, do you suppose it'll really come to pass that I’ll get out this summer sometime? A slight development today with regard to the discharge application – the memorandum saying that my records are clear came back from the office of the Headquarters Commandant. Now all that is missing is the letter from Prof. Kerr and I’m sorta of hoping that it will arrive tomorrow. I had the “dope” on his letter a little mixed up – when you cable that you had heard from Prof. Kerr, I assumed that he had sent his letter to you at Denison for forwarding to me. As I understand it now (from a note I received from Prof. Wright today) Prof. Kerr wrote to Prof. Wright who in turn wrote to tell K. what to put in the letter which he (K) will send directly to me. I have my fingers crossed hoping that Prof. Kerrs letter doesn't end up aboard a ship – why can't it be one of those lucky ones and catch a plane and be here in seven or eight days or so. I'm growing anxious to have this application on its way to Washington. 

		Well, the Officers and Ed got away early this morning. I’m afraid they’ll not have had a very pleasant first day because it was raining to beat the band when we awoke this morning (Ed had gotten up at a quarter after four). Of course, perhaps the storm didn’t extend very far south. Ed will be very disappointed if the weather was cloudy because from here to Okinawa, the plane would fly over most of land area of Japan to the south of us.

		I did very little all day long except write a letter to Professor Wright. I want to get a letter off to Dean Richards and to President Brown also sometime soon.

		Oh, yes, I received Newsletter No. 29 today and looked it over with considerable care. That’s the one for which you cut all the stencils isn’t it? They looked very nice, Sweetheart. It must be a very difficult job. Golly, a lot of the fellows are getting out aren’t they, but then, that’s certainly to be expected! I was a little floored by the number of casualties to date – 52! Seems like the number has increased greatly since I left school about a year ago although I don’t remember for sure what it was then.

		I also received today the copy of the Denisonian of March 8. It’s so much fun to have them, Hon. I look ‘em over about a dozen times.

		So you told Dean Richards I could teach the Astronomy, eh? Well, I think i could too, but not as well certainly as Freeman Miller will be able to. That reminds me, who is going to teach the Meteorology? Or is the Meteorology to be part of the course which the Dean is asking Freeman Miller to teach? Guess that’s the way it is. Wonder what Prof. Wright has had to say about this matter – he was always very anxious to keep Meteorology under the wing of his department.

		You’ll be interested to hear that I have some plans to do some more “field work” in California during these next few days. Right next to our office the Natural Resources Section has a drafting room; they have a very excellent pantograph which I want to make use of to enlarge a critical portion of the Halls Flat Quadrangle. Have you ever gotten a copy of the map? Well, it’s the area just east of Long’s Ranch – called the Murken Bench. You’ll notice the long north-south trending escarpment called the Hat Creek Rim? Well I suspect this is a fault scarp, but in the vicinity of Murken Bench the faulting is somehow complicated. One of the first things I want to do in the field is figure out the complications in that region (we could room and board at Long’s Ranch (I hope)). Marian, I think there are some extra copies of the Halls Flat Quadrangle in one of those shallow drawers on the left side of the big cabinet in my office. Why don’t you go over there sometime and look for one?

		It’s taking me longer and longer to write my daily stint. Am seldom in the ;letter writing mood anymore, it seems like. Are you bothered the same way? Let’s try not to let down though, Darling, because I know how much I need your letters and I’m sure you need mine too!

		Think though I’ll go over and take my nightly shower and climb in. Oh, yes, last night for the first time since I’ve been here I wore my pajamas. Have been wearing my “longies” to sleep in. The pajamas were swell. I only have the one pair along with me, but when they need washing, I can do it myself and they’ll dry over one night. So don’t bother to send any!

		Goodnight,Sweetheart, you know,don’t you, that I love you very much

									Forever yours,
			
										Dick
[written by hand]
Fri Morn April 5
Good morning, Dolly, and it is a good morning too! Am going to try to take some pictures this afternoon. Larry is taking the forenoon off!
						Love,
							Dick

348th day						Friday, April 5, 1946

My Dearest Marian Janet,

		Here we go again! Your letter of March 27th to answer tonight – it came in right on time didn’t it – arrived here the ninth day after mailing!

		I also had a short letter from Professor Kerr but unfortunately it was not the letter to go along with my application. That one,he explained,he had sent to the commanding officer of my unit the day before (that would make it the 27th). Now the question is – where is that letter. Did Professor Kerr mean that he had addressed the letter to the Commanding Officer, MID Mapping and Photo Section, etc. Think he must have because he would have no way of knowing about the fact that we also have a C.O. of our Company over at the Billet. Probably since one letter was mailed a day before the other they got separated – his letter addressed to Colonel Northrup as C.O. of the Section will probably come along tomorrow. Golly, I certainly hope so. I don’t know why I didn’t have sense enough to tell Prof. Kerr to address the letter to the C.O. of my section but to send the letter directly to me! When Prof. K’s letter arrives, I think I’ll send you a sable; you should have the cable before you receive this letter so you won’t have to worry about the situation explained above!

		It was nice that the Advocate was able to send you a large print of the picture. From your description of it, you must really be able to see all the details! Yes, the picture was posed. The sailor and I happened to be sitting on the davenport like seat and the photographer came along and asked us if we’d mind turning around and point our cameras out the window as if we were photographing the scenery. After he took the picture, he wanted to know our names and our home addresses; I wondered at the time if anything would come of it. The Red Cross must really have a very elaborate system for distributing things like these pictures to the “home folks”. I suspect they believe, and I think they’re right, that it is all very good advertising. Did Ruthie Outland post the picture on the Bulletin Board with all the rest of her Denison in the news stuff. Perhaps she didn’t because after all Denison wasn’t mentioned. I constantly forget that I’m actually a Granville draftee – is my name up on the service board downtown or have they abandoned that thing entirely? Is John Bjelke still chairman of the Board (not the service board, the Selective Service Board)? I’ll bet he is growing weary of the job. Has his boy ever been discharged?

Kind of an interesting thing happened here this afternoon. One of the boys who works in the Natural Resources Section drafting office which is next door to our office (it’s separated only by a line of bookcases actually) had found out that I was an instructor at Denison. Today he had a paper from his hometown – Rutherford, N.J. – and in a copy of the paper was the story of Dave Allison’s death in the B-29 crash! The reason that it happened to be in that paper was that Dave’s father used to be a minister at a church in Rutherford; the boy who showed me the paper used to attend the church when Mr. Allison preached there!

I can imagine that there was much excitement concerning the budget committee meeting and the visit of the special committee to Cleveland and the luncheon which the President had with the Trustees before the special meeting, etc. etc. Too dad I think that the President put himself in such a vulnerable position by attending the luncheon. I would have thought he would have purposefully avoided doing that very thing. I personally doubt it anything said or done at that luncheon meeting hindered the effort of the special committee at the later meeting, but nevertheless, it certainly didn’t look well! I certainly will be interested to see where it all leads – will be interested to see just how much of a raise the faculty is going to get. I know you’ll keep me informed!

You say you had Oscar cut your hair. Golly sakes, it looked to me in those pictures that you already had it cut pretty short. What goes on? Is another wave of the boyish haircut sweeping the country? Are the college girls following the trend toward shorter hair which was reported in an issue of Life which the Colonels brought back with them?

Did very little all day today. Hung around the office while Larry went for a jeep ride this morning and this afternoon, I went for a jeep ride. Got into some parts of the city I hadn’t previously seen and they were interesting, As long as one stays in the area right around our office and billet – an area say perhaps a mile square, Tokyo looks not unlike any other city in many respects; but once a person gets a little farther out, the whole aspect changes; there the buildings are low and run down, the streets unbelieveably bad and unbelieveably dirty. And, Oh, how crowded it is. So many of the sections of the city of this type have been burned that it came almost as a shock to me today to see one or two of the remaining ones. Another thing about the city – under the influence of the warm fun sun the smells are becoming even stronger; I hate to think what it’s going to be like when some of the great piles of garbage and dirt of various sorts begins to really get “ripe”!

Well we have plans tonight! Tomorrow being Army Day has been declared a holiday for all troops in GHQ! Nice, eh? So Larry and George and Bill Quackenbush (the Lt. from the office “next door” – the one who went to Stanford with Ed) and I are going on a jeep trip. We’re going down toward Mt. Fuji; we think we’ve found out where there’s a place we can stay tomorrow night and we’ll come back Sunday. It’s about a hundred mile trip down there and having two days will make it a leisurely one. We’re a little discouraged concerning the weather outlook – a thin haze of clouds obscured the sun as it was setting tonight. If it’s raining in the morning – we’re just going to turn over and go back to sleep. Hope it’s nice though – this will be a fine chance to get out in to the country and a chance to get some swell pictures!

Golly, I have a sore nose tonight – one of those mean little inside pimples about which a person can do nothing. Got something in my eye this afternoon too and couldn’t get it out. Finally after supper Larry managed to find the boulder and dug it out but my eye still hurts. I suspect the cinder or whatever it was scratched the eyeball a little bit.

This letter is going very slowly tonight. Do you know I’ve been working on it since about 7:15 and it’s now 9:30. You mention in your letter I received today that it went slowly too. I know exactly how it is. I find myself just sitting at the typewriter and thinking – thinking of you, and wanting to be with you – but not getting any words down on paper.

Well, I think I’ll call this all for tonight. Have to take a shower. Before I leave the office I have to write us out some passes for tomorrow and Sunday – will sign Captain Shute’s name to them. Don’t know what else to do and I’m certain it will be all right to do it that way.

And so goodnight, My Darling One, I love you with all my heart. I wish there was some new way of saying that because I want you to know it. I hope it isn’t going to be too awfully long before I’ll be able to whisper it in your ear – that always seemed most satisfactory!

						Forever yours,
	
								Dick
[Hand written]
Saturday Morning, April 6
Guess what – raining this morning! A nice misty, drizzling rain so that’s that – no trip
Maybe some other time!
			Love you though
					Your D

		349th day						Saturday, April 6, 1946

My dearest Marian,

	This letter will probably arrive out of order because it’s being written out of order. Yes, I’ll confess it’s being written on Monday afternoon. Here’s what happened!

	Saturday night George and Larry and I went to Hibya Hall to see a U.S.O. show called “Red, White, and Blues” – a negro band accompanied by a troupe of very good negro performers, singers, dancers, comedians, etc. After the show,we came back to the office and I fully intended to write the usual letter, but I wasn’t quite in the mood and I got to fooling around with my pantograph set-up trying to get it to working. Fussed with it for a hour and a half or so and by that time it was so late I decided to let the letter go over until Sunday morning. Well, as I said in last night’s letter (Sunday’s), on the way over to the office Sunday morning I picked up the mail and the letter from you concerning that Office of Education dope was there and when I got to the office I began at once to work on it! Last night I got Sunday’s letter written and that was all. So-o-o now it’s Monday and there’s some time to tell Saturday’s story which really doesn’t amount to much. 

	I put a note on Friday’s letter saying that we woke up Saturday morning to find that the rain was coming down and that put a crimp into the plans we had made to take a two-day jeep trip down to the Mt. Fuji region. Having nothing better to do, I came on over to the office and since there was no one working in the Natural Resources drafting room which is right next to our office, I decided I’d see if I could get the pantograph to working so that I could enlarge the portion of the Halls Flat topographic map which I’m interested in doing (told you about it the other night).
