Thursday Night May 19, 1945
Dear Mother + Dad:
                        Am really tired tonight but will take a few minutes to write and say that my mail began arriving at last this afternoon – it was here for 12:15 mail call today but I was working at the rifle range so did not get it until the 5:15 call! The registered letter has arrived but it’s at the Battalion Headquarters so I’ll not be able to get it until tomorrow.
                        Let me explain what all the letters in the address mean.
                        Private R.H. Mahard, 35985568
Company A, 7th Battalion, Basic Training Section Army Service Forces Training Center
Fort Lewis, Washington
                                                [Arrow pointing at Washington] Think it’s right!
                        I think that Charlie McAllister is probably less than a ½ mile from where I am – I’ll try to look him up. Probably not tomorrow though because I’m on K.P. from 5:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. – ain’t that sumpin?
                        Had a pretty “rough” detail today too. Worked all day on the rifle range walked 4½ mile there and 4½ home again. We had to push the targets up for the men to fire at then we’d pull them down, patch the hole and signal the score they made – it was quite interesting but quite hard and dirty!
                        It’s looking more and more as though we may get going on our +-“basic” training next week – don’t think they’re going to move us again after all!
I heartily approve of your idea of writing often – boy, mail means everything here!
Will really have to hit the hay now not long until five!
What did John think about                Love,
my bein in the Army?                                                        Dick
Sunday Morning
May 13, 1945 9:15
Dear Folks:
                Just a page to tell some news of the past two or three days.
                First of all I got the registered letter all O.K. and yesterday afternoon I managed to get the forms all filled in and notarized – got my finger prints taken too. I think the material is all in order so I’ll send it in. If it isn’t right they can write me and I’ll work on it some more – what a lot of red tape.
                Friday all day I worked on K.P. and it was pretty tough going – we were up at 4:30 and we didn’t finish up until after 7:00. I did everything from crack ½ case of eggs to scrub pots and pans – did the latter job for 6 hours straight. Peeled a few spuds too! The good part was that we had plenty to eat! The mess hall where we worked was one of the ones in the 1st Battalion – that’s the one Chuck McAllister is in. I didn’t see him but I was busy as the boys came through the line so I might have missed him – then too that Battalion would have several mess halls. I’ll try to contact him, perhaps this afternoon!
                Yesterday we had our first inspection and I escaped unscathed. Our barracks got along all right except they found some dust on the rafters – they’re quite particular aren’t they!
                The weather you’ve been having sounds bad indeed – it has been raining here continuously for the past four days – no sign of a let up today either!
                Rumor has it that tomorrow we start our basic training – hope so! We still don’t know whether we’ll be moved from this Company and Battalion or not – keep sending mail to the same address until you hear. 
                Oh say – here’s something. I think that somewhere in that filing case in our desk you’ll find an envelope with a photo of me. Will you send one please to the following address: Miss LEONA M. REAL
DEP’T OF THE INTERIOR
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, ROOM 4227
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
You had better write my name on the back of the photo and say also “taken in 1941” The photo must be on file at the personnel office of the Survey. Please let me know if you manage to find the photo O.K.! Thanks a lot.
                Have to hurry now to get this in the mail so it will go out today.
                Write often – letters mean so much!
                                                Love,
                                                        Dick
Sunday Afternoon
May 13, 1945
Dear Mother + Dad:
                        Wrote and mailed a letter earlier today but since then the package you sent has arrived – it was a lot of fun to get it and it arrived in good condition. Now I’m writing to ask you to send something more. Perhaps Marian has already written to you about some of the items. Most of all I’m anxious to have those shower slippers – they’re in the box in the attic along with all our winter clothes and my gymnasium equipment – I think they are anyway – I seem to remember it’s that wooden tea box. At any rate it’ll probably be less – but not much less – than a day’s work to find them. Next in importance is a number of wire clothes hangers – select about a dozen heavy wire ones all as nearly alike as possible. I thought I might want you to send those wooden ones but now I think not!
                        Golly, seems as though there was something more I wanted but can’t seem to think of it at the moment.
                        We’ve had a nice day today – got up late (7:30) – went to chapel at 10:30 and to a movie this afternoon – had a lunch at Post Exchange and now I’m back at the Barracks for the day. Going to go to bed early because tomorrow may be a tough day.
                        I had a letter from Charlie Hunt saying that the office of the Chief of Engineers had sent a telegram to the classification officer at Camp Atterbury recommending me for work with the Military Intelligence Division Office, Chief of Engineers I don’t know if the telegram reached there before we were shipped or not. I have written to Hunt asking that he have another telegram sent here – it will be very important to have such a telegram on file when we finish our basic training because at that time the most crucial “classification” of all takes place. Hope it comes through O.K.
                        Guess that’s all for this time. Goodnight folks
                                                                        Love, Dick
Thurs May 17, 1945
8:15 a.m.
Dear Folks:
                It’s a strange time for me to be writing. Ordinarily at this hour I’d be out on some “detail” or another, but this morning I have received a break. At 9:00 I have to report to the First Sergeant and he’s sending me over to the Main Fort (about 1 mile from here) with our marriage license. The license has to be sent to Newark, N.J. to the office of dependency benefits before Marian will receive any more allotment checks. The check which she received the other day was the initial one which is sent directly from the Induction Station – in my case Camp Atterbury. That first check was all “gravy” none of it came from my pay. In the case of the ones from now on $22.00 comes from my pay and the Gov’t contributes $28.00.
                Speaking of money, we have still not been paid for April and I personally am not expecting to be paid for some time. Some of the boys are getting pretty anxious though – especially those who lost the money they brought with them in a crap game or a poker game. Yes, plenty of gambling goes on, but it’s not for me – nor can I understand why the fellows get such a kick out of it!
                Well today is the first day in the last eight which has not been rainy and it looks as though the rain is going to start any minute. I guess the fine weather we had the first of last week was very unusual indeed.
                Day before yesterday they transferred some of the boys to another Company and yesterday they were issued their rifles and Monday they start their “basic” training in earnest! Golly I certainly wish we could get going, but I’m afraid it may be quite a while yet. They seem to be having a difficult time getting officers enough – the other day, though, we were sent a new captain and things began to move a little faster.
                One of the fellows who came with our bunch from Atterbury is getting a break – guess you’d call it that. He had a hernia and a big tumor on his shoulder. On Monday he was operated upon for the hernia and in a couple of weeks they’ll take the tumor off. He’ll be in the hospital for 5 to 6 weeks and then they’ll send him all the way back to Ohio on a convalescent furlough. Doesn’t that make sense? I suppose there were no hospitals closer to Camp Atterbury, Ind. than Fort Lewis, Washington! Well, as they say, there’s a right way to do a thing and then there’s the Army way!
                Marian said in her letter which arrived yesterday that you were sending the hangers and  woul send the shower slippers – I’m certainly anxious to get them. Thanks very much for all the trouble you’ve taken!
Guess now that I’d better make this all for this time and get going to see the “Sarge”
So long, Folks
write often 
Love,
Dick
P.S, Saw Chas. MacAllister the other evening – ran into him by accident on the bus. He's two weeks into his “basic” – says it’s not bad. Boy, he’s a big fellow – weighs over 220! He's afraid his diabetes may flare up because he’s eating so much! 
Did you hear that June Travis had an auto accident? Didn’t hurt her or the b but wrecked their car!
Saturday Night
May 19, 1945
Dear Folks:
         In a new place tonight – made a big move this afternoon – about 100 yards! Am now in the “B”  company instead of “A” and am in the 2nd platoon of the company. This is where we’ll stay for our basic. Basic training, however, will not commence until a week from Monday and will last for six weeks. That means we should be finished on 14th of July. (Wish that meant the end of my stay in the Army!) 
This next week I suppose we’ll do “detail” just as we have been doing these past two weeks, but perhaps not quite so much of it! 
The Sergeant who will be in charge of our Platoon seems to be a pretty nice fellow and if that iis so it certainly will help a lot! A bunch which came from Atterbury is a little split up because they put us into Platoons alphabetically – I’m located quite close of a couple of the others though!
 Am not in much of a writing mood tonight so I think I’ll finish this in the morning – it’s almost time for lights out anyhow! Goodnight, folks 
                                                                        Love
Before I forget it again, thanks a million for the air mail stamps!                Dick
Sunday Morning
May 20, 1945
Hello again,
                Breakfast over – it was a little later this morning 7:45 – it’s strange how a person’s idea of late and early can change. In Granville 7:45 was early and 6:00 (the regular breakfast hour here) was simply unimaginable!
                Quite a good night last night except that one damn fool came in all beered up at about one o’clock and woke everyone up. I know what I’d like to do to him, but I’d be court martialed for it! He’s lying in his bunk just across from me now snoring for all he's worth – Most of the fellows are a pretty nice sort but sprinkled through are some bad ones!
                Am going to Chapel after a while and then after dinner will go over to the Main Fort area to service club and some of us are going to try to visit the two boys from our 13 who are in the hospital. One was operated upon for a hernia (he also has a tumor) and the other has a bad knee. That reminds me – for goodness sakes tell John when you see him that to get into the Army is absolutely the last thing a man should want to do! And, believe me, I really mean it! Any means fair or foul used for staying out is justified. 
                Saw Charlie McAllister march by yesterday when all the men were on their way to the parade area. He was easy to pick out – being as tall as he is, he is in the first rank of his platoon. 
                The package with the hangers nor the one with the shower slippers have not arrived yet. They are in separate packages aren’t they? I hope that this move we made will not delay them. Mail addressed to us at “A” company will go there (100 yards distant) then back to the Main Fort then back here to “B” company. That’s the Army! However for the next couple of days we’ll try to intercept it down there – that is at “A” company!
                        Just checked your letters and read that you sent the slippers Monday and the hangers Wednesday. Perhaps the slippers will arrive today – we have a mail call right after dinner
                        Think that ends this chapter – will keep you informed of “progress”
                                                                        Love,
                                                                                Dick
Thurs. May 24, 1945
Dear Folks:
                Forgotten when last I wrote to you, but I’m sure it has not been since I received the two packages. The hangers arrived yesterday and the slippers today. I can’t figure out why the one sent last arrived first but it may be because the slippers were insured and hence had to go to battalion headquarters where I have to go to pick them up. Thanks very much for sending them!
                Have I told you that we have moved again. Yes, it was yesterday – this time we’ve moved to another area of the Fort about a mile from where we were. But, inasmuch, as the whole Battalion moved our address remains exactly the same. So yesterday was a busy day – made even busier because at 5:15 last evening I was told I was one of the eight picked for “guard” duty. We had to wash, shave, dress, eat and be ready to report for inspection at 6:00. I walked my beat from 6-8 and then was off for four hours – could not undress, however, – and then was on duty from 12:00 to 2:00. At 2:00 we were allowed to go to bed, but believe me 5:30 came very soon after that. All the guard duty involved was watching for fires – last night we did not carry a rifle but later we probably will!
                This morning I “caught” a carpentering detail – repaired the mail box where we mail our letters and fitted a couple of hasps on doors. As usual, the task was made as difficult as it possibly could be by the fact that no good tools were available, no suitable wood, and I had to pull and straighten nails and use second hand screws. If the Army has all the stuff that civilians can’t get, the Army is going to keep it forever all lined up in the warehouses!
                Guess I didn’t explain why we moved Rumor has it that the area we vacated will be taken over by Negro troops – that’s a good possibility because they’re certainly moving them in here in great numbers! Others are arriving too – soon, they say, there’ll be nearly 10,000 men in the Basic Training Section alone – it is also said that there are 40,000 here at Fort Lewis altogether!
                Think we’ll really get started on our training on Monday – if so we should finish up about the middle of July – the 14th. If things work out for me as they have for another boy I met who has had graduate training in Geology, I’ll then be sent to Fort Belvoir, Virginia (50 miles from Washington D.C.) Wouldn’t that be something? Hope so! Hope so!
                That’s the story for the time being I guess. Thanks again for the hangers and slippers!
Am enclosing a check for 25.00. Will you cash it and send me the money by registered mail. Don’t tell Marian! Want it for a gift for her for June 12!


                                                                Love, 
                                                                        Dick
Friday June 1, 1945
Dear Folks:
                I have just a few minutes this morning before reporting for duty and I’ll jot down a few words to let you know I’m still perkin’ First let me say that the registered letter with the 25.00 arrived safely thank you for doing this for me. I think I’m going to do some shopping. 
                I received the check the other day from the Geol. Survey for the 5½ days I worked there ($45.12) I sent it home endorsed to Marian by registered mail – It would have been a nuisance to get it cashed here I have to have it signed by the Commanding Officer.
                This week beginning Wednesday and continuing through tomorrow I’ve been doing some special duty. I was selected to take an eleven hour “course” in how to be what is considered an “Information + Educational Service” representative. It simply mean that I’m supposed to be the fellow in our platoon who leads discussions concerning topics as war objectives, our attitude toward Britain + Russia, race tolerance etc. The Army you see feels that the fellows are too poorly informed concerning these matters and I’m supposed to be the teacher. The course has been quite interesting but I have missed quite a bit of our regular training which I’ll have to catch up on!
                Have to go now will try to write more later.
                                                                                Love,
                                                                                        Dick
Dear Folks:                                                                                June 7, 1945
                Just a short note – your letter arrived today Mother. Sorry to hear that John didn’t have his visit with you – I don’t know what to say about the whole situation because I can’t understand it. I’m sorry for John because he has missed out on what I’ve been so lucky to have – a fine wife. I think that it’s something he’ll just have to work out for himself – he’ll take a beating doing it, but we can’t help him – you can’t and least of all can I help!
                The training is getting rough we’re terribly ruched from time to get up 5:30 am. until time for bed – six mile walk Tues., seven yesterday (last four a “forced” march) and today we ran the obstacle course twice with full pack, gas mask, canteen, cartridge belt, and rifle and walked three miles in addition! I should be home right now cleaning my rifle – because it took a beating on the obstacle course!
                Think however I’m holding up well and will soon begin to thrive on it – have gained some weight about 175 in regular clothes now!
                Am going to stop with only this page but I’ll try to write again this weekend!
                                                                So long, Folks                love
                                                                                Dick
Monday evening
June 18 ‘45
Dear Folks:
                Just a “quickie” to let you know that everything is going along O.K. I’m sorry I can’t write more often but we’ve been terribly busy – being busy coupled with the fact that I’m so tired usually that I go to bed as early as I can leaves little time for writing.
                We were on the rifle range all day today – its dogs are really barking – I fired a little better today than last week when we were out but I still must improve. Fired well enough to “qualify” today (140 out of 210 is necessary) I made 144 – would like to bring it up to sharp shooter – 165 if I can! Fired from 500 yards today quite a long ways, at a 24 inch bullseye – also fired from 300 yards!
                Dad, am sending you some cigarettes tonite – the fellows here are rationed to six packages each week – you can have my last two weeks ration. Sorry they’re not all Philip Morris Marian tells me they’re your favorite –
                Was hot here today – we’ve had only one day of rain in three weeks – hope the weather holds up for our sixth week during which we’re out in the field on “bivouac” all week. “Basic” was half over last Saturday – today our fourth week began.
                Found out today that I’ll not be able to “put in” for Officer’s Candidate School until after I finish all my basic and “basic” may involve more than this six weeks – it depends upon where I’m sent at the end of this six weeks. I’m going to write again to Washington to try to bring some pressure to bear there. The Lt. told me today it would be a good idea. Am still hoping of course to be sent to Fort Belvoir, Va. – after I’m there I might have a better chance to work some of these angles.             got some blisters!
                Had better limp ^ over to the Post Office now with the package.
(On my letters wrote 7th Bn. instead of Bn. 7)                Love,
                                                                        Dick
Wednesday June 27, 1945
Dear Folks:
                Lights are out, but I feel I must try to get at least a note off to you tonite.
                We’ve been busy – busy day and night so far this week although tonite we were finished after a late supper after a “retreat” parade we had to march in. Have to be up at 4:30 tomorrow morning so I guess I’d better crawl in as soon as possible.
                Your letter with the two dollars arrived safely – Glad you got the cigarettes O.K. Dad – is that you talking or Mother when she says you can get all that’s good for you anyway?
                About the watch – it’s awfully nice of you to want to go in with Marian on it – there’s just nothing I’d like better or need more. There are no watches to be had around the P.X. here and I think to send to the company in N.Y.C. is the best bet probably. I have sent the literature back to Marian – I told her that she’d better try not to send it to me until we find out what’s going to happen to me after next week.
                Have absolutely no notion of what will happen – rumors are beginning to fly – the chief one being that many of us will end up at Camp Crowder, Missouri However, I’m inclined to think that my fate will be different than that of the others and I’m still hoping for the Fort Belvoir assignment – at once after finishing basic, but if not then soon after. I understand that some of the fellows in the last “b” Co. were shipped to a different part of this fort at first and then to Belvoir in a week or ten days. That might happen in my case, but I hope not!
                This week – day after tomorrow – we fire our rifles on the range for the record. I’m hoping I can do reasonably well. Fired rifles today on the “combat” range at man sized targets which “popped up” at various distances – it was fun.
                Tomorrow we go to the “combat village” Have to make a simulated attack on it and probably take a turn at defending it too!
                Have I told you that we will leave this Sunday on our “bivouac” We’ll live in tents and have maneuvers for six days (we come in Friday morning) It all can be sort of fun it the weather’s good, but I personally wish it were over. We’ll get mail out there and can mail letters too if we can find a way to write them and some time!
                Glad to hear about the cherries – you should make a nice little profit off them – I read in the paper that the Gov’t has bought the entire crop. Glad too that the grapes weren’t hurt too bad by the frost this spring.
                Boy, how I’d like to spend the rest of the summer with you – sometime maybe!
                                                                Goodnight, Folks
Love,                                
Dick                        
Chas. McAllister would have finished his “basic” by now + is probably at some different place here on the Fort! Wouldn’t know where
Pvt. R.H. Mahard 35985568                                                        Sunday July 8, 1945
Pit 3, Co A, 65th Bn. E.T.S.
A.S.F.T.C.                        [arrow pointing at E.T.S.] Engineering Training Section
Fort Lewis, Washington


Dear Folks:
                The above is my new address – for how long I’m not able to say – perhaps for three days, perhaps for 12 weeks! Was moved over here yesterday afternoon along with about 75 other fellows from our training company. As yet nobody knows what the score is but that’s not unusual for the Army. This next week we’ll just mess around getting the company organized – that means carpentry work and painting and scrubbing etc. etc. We’ll probably be sent out to other companies on details too – same old story. Also during this next week we may again be “processed” and sorted into our specialities because this training is largely specialized as I understand it – there is a group of painters, a group of construction foremen, a group of demolition experts, a group of automotive mechanics, etc. etc. but how a geology teacher fits into the picture bewilders me! However, I am interested in this classification process because it might just mean that I would be shipped from this Fort elsewhere to take some training which is not given here – the topographic engineering for example which I think I mentioned once before.
                In other words just because yesterday I was transferred to this Engineers part of the Fort doesn’t mean that I have lost the chance I was hoping for of being sent East. The next few days should tell the story!
                Well the basic training is past history. The last week was not bad except for the march out there and the last two days which included the even more strenuous march back – 16 miles – and a night spent in the cold. I’ve written the details of the bivouac in my letters to Marian and she’ll send them on to you!
                I’m sorry to say that my watch hasn’t yet arrived. I expect it will be in tomorrow and I’ll go over to our old company tomorrow evening to pick it up so that they won’t have to mess around forwarding it. Thanks so very much, Mother and Dad, for helping to get it for me – I know I’ll like it a lot and I certainly need it badly. Also thanks a million for the five dollars – most of it will probably go for ice cream which is my one big vice in the Army. Lost a little weight on bivouac but will no doubt gain it right back.
                Well the song says that “Saturday Night is the Lonliest Night of the Week” but I say that Sunday night is – always am a little down on Sunday nights. But in a few minutes I’ll be going to bed and will go to sleep and forget it all. Don’t even ask what I would give to be there with you on the farm tonight. Always have liked it there and have been so sorry we’ve not been able to work with you more these past four years or so!
Goodnight, Folks                
Love                
Dick        
Sorry I haven’t written more but it has been hard to find the time and energy lately!
Tuesday, July 10, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad:
                        Got my watch today and I’m so darn happy with it that I can hardly keep my eyes off it long enough to write this letter! Thanks so very much, Folks – honestly I can’t say how much I like it and appreciate it! All that and five dollars too – it’s just too much!
                        Have myself a new job – got it last evening        Night work! Last night and tonight and probably tomorrow night too I’m acting as C.Q. (Charge of Quarters) at the 65th Battalion Headquarters – the Major himself is my boss! Now that sounds important doesn’t it! But it isn’t but it’s a good job. All I have to do is answer the telephone and last night it didn’t ring once. I have a bed here in the office and I go right ot bed at ten o’clock like everyone else and get up in the morning at 5:45 like everyone else. In the morning I have to sweep the floor and clean the wash basins etc. in the toilet. When the Major comes at 7:30 I’m through and I have the whole day off until 4:30p.m. when I report here again. 
                        Got the job when after I had voluntarily gone to the First Sergeant and told him I’d like to work detail for him if he had anything for me. Yesterday all day I messed around at the Motor Pool helping to get a big crane moved but we accomplished exactly nothing – had enough of that kind of foolishness.
                        Have had no word concerning re-classification or shipping orders although some men in one of the other companies of the 65th are being sent out on Saturday – some of them to a camp in Illinois – one of the fellows lives in Oregon– of course they would send him east and leave the eastern boys here! I personally am still hoping!
                        We’ve had two very hot days in a row now and it’s really getting dry – you may have read about some forest fires out this way – the grass has entirely dried up – some contrast to the weather we had when we first arrived here!
                        I got a pass when I finished work this morning went over to our old location and got my watch and then went to Olympia It was sorta fun to be there during the week when the stores were open – have been there mostly on Sunday. One thing I noticed was that there was plenty of meat on display in the butcher shops – I was really surprised
                        Am getting sleep now so think I’ll do my work from the bed for the next few hours!
                        Goodnight, Folks, and thanks once again for the marvelous watch – it’s just perfect.
Love                
Dick        
Sunday July 15, 1945
Dear Folks:
                Well here’s the new address – it’s sort of hard to keep track of me isn’t it?
Pvt. R.H. Mahard 35985568
This can be abbreviated                Co B 52nd Engr, Trng. Bn.
E.T.S                         Engineering Training Section
Fort Lewis, Washington
[Arrow pointing from E.T.S to Engineering Training Section]


                Got here about 8:30 last night – was supposed to transfer in the afternoon as the rest of the boys did but I was working for the 1st Sergeant at “A” 65th so he called up here and asked if I could stay on and help him finish up. Which I did do. Don’t know very much about the set up here. As near as I can find out the training is basic combat engineering. We’ll study a lot about demolitions, bridge building etc. etc. You know all the kinds of work the engineers take care of in combat areas. The training lasts for eleven weeks – that means we finish September 29 – the last three weeks is “bivouac.” After the training we’ll be shipped to a replacement center and after some processing will be given a 15 day furlough + travelling time – then back to the replacement center, then to a Port of Bubarkatim – then a long sea voyage!
                However don’t be too alarmed that’s all a very long ways off. Just as soon as I possibly can I’m going to find out what the story is on Officer’s Training. I asked the 1st Lt. at “A” 65 about it yesterday and he said he didn’t know if I could apply before I finish this training period or not. Certainly hope I can. If I can apply at once I’m going to do it! They say the training takes about six months and is very hard but it would be better than this. All officers are trained at Fort Belvoir – that is all Engineering Officers and that’s what I would be!
                I wrote to Marian the other day and proposed that, if it turned out I’d have to be here 3 months or so more, she consider coming out here. Suppose at first thought it seems crazy, but it really isn’t. Am getting pretty fed up with our being separated, we might just as well be together as much as we can while we can. Of course much will depend upon development during these next few days – if I can “out in” at once for OCS + if there is a possibility of its coming through at all soon M. wouldn’t come. And there are some other things I want to investigate too if I can.
                Glad to hear the cherry crop was a success – hope you didn’t tire yourselves all out picking them. What you going to do with the vacation Dad, how about driving out here?
                Guess that’s about all for this time. My watch is running swell and I like it more and more – thanks again,
Love                                
Dick                        
Wednesday, July 18, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad:
                        Why the typewriter? Well, I have an office job again tonight. I’m acting as Battalion Charge of Quarters tonight – it’s the same job I had for a couple of nights last week when I was with the 65 Bn. As a matter of fact I suppose that I was chosen tonight partly because of the experience I had last week at the job.
                
                        Another reason I have the job though has to do with another new leader of our platoon. It isn’t much – I have to take roll of my squad in the morning and report the squad “All present or accounted for” when the Sergeant asks me for the report. Perhaps later the squad will be split into two groups for training purposes and if that is done I’ll be in charge of one half of the gang! Well as a “reward” for being assistant squad leader, I do not have to draw K.P. duty nor Guard duty, but I do draw this Batalion C.Q. job from time to time – don't’ really know how frequently it will be
                        
                        Our training is getting under way. On Monday we had quite a bit of marching and manual of arms which was, of course, in the nature of a review because we all had the same stuff in “basic”. Yesterday morning we had a lot of work with knot tying and lasnings and that sort of thing, did quite a bit of work with various kinds of block and tackle equipment. In the afternoon yesterday we learned to be carpenters in ten easy lessons – first we attended a movie with showed the correct method of using the basic tools and then we went to a training area where we had a chance to drive a nail, plane a board, cut a board with a saw etc. etc. Some stuff I’ll say. [-?]ny all this? Well you see a Combat Engineer has to be sort of a jack-of-all-trades because he can never tell just what sort of problem he is going to encounter – that’s the general idea anyway, I guess. A lot of the fellows are beginning to gripe about the whole business already, but I don’t guess it’s going to do them much good.


                        This morning we continued our training with the various types of tools and equipment. This morning we had a chance to use such tools as the axe, adze, cross-cut saw, peavey, cant-hook etc. and also shovels, picks, and rost-hole diggers (the auger type which doesn’t work worth a darn.) It sounds silly doesn’t it? But on the other hand plenty of the fellows showed signs of never having had a tool in their hands before and they’ll certainly need to know something about them when we begin to build bridges etc.


                        Happy Birthday, Mother, I bought a card for you about two weeks ago, but the date slipped up on me and I just mailed it today. I hope it reaches you in time. I had planned, at Marian’s suggestion, to have my picture taken and to send you one for your birthday present, but with all the confusion of the past two or three weeks I just couldn’t manage to get it in. When things get settled down a little bit I’ll try to manage it.


                        Guess I wrote didn’t I that Marian and I have just about decided that she should come out here to pay me a visit. We’ve made no arrangements as yet. Don’t know how much I’ll be able to see her, but even if it’s only twice or three times a week it will be worth it. Right now it looks very such as though I’ll be here eight more weeks and probably for eleven after which I’ll get a furlough. Then, if I don’t go to Officer’s Candidate School, an overseas assignment it a very strong liklihood – might just as well face that fact right now whether we like it or not!


                        Think I had better wind this letter up and give up using this typewriter before someone objects. Write often won’t you? I enjoy so much hearing about how things are at the farm.
                                                                        Love,
                                                                                Dick


[Written on the left side of the paper reads: My watch is swell! I’m going to send the other one home as soon as I get a chance – perhaps you can have it repaired!]
July 24, 1945
Tues. 6:10 p.m.
Dear Mom + Dad –
        Will try to tell you all the news – yesterday morn. I walked for a long while looking at the Capital grounds. The flowers are beautiful – and for a Roins [-?] for [illegible] sign! 




Cannot read well – have Tam transcribe. 
109th day [box drawn around 109th day]                                Thursday August 9, 1945


Death Mother and Dad,
                        I’m really very sorry that I have allowed a big break to form in my chain of letters – Marian’s coming completely upset my routine and the time I formerly had for writing has been taken up (very pleasantly I assure you) seeing her.
                        I’ll come to the really big news first – I’m being transferred from here to Fort Myer, Virginia on August 15! It came out of a perfectly blue sky day before yesterday. I have no notion why I’m going nor have I any notion what I’ll be doing after I arrive. Fort Myer is a relatively small camp right across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C. The week we lived with the Neuschel’s in Arlington, Virginia we went right past the gate of Fort Myers on the bus going to work. I suspect that most of the soldiers stationed there work at some sort of a specialty in Washington or perhaps at the Pentagon Bldg which isn’t far away At any rate I’m really excited about the whole thing —
                        Now here’s some more of the story – when the Company Clerk told me that I was leaving he also asked me if I had a car which I would want to drive East. The fact that he asked me that made me suspect that there might be some advantage in driving over travelling by train so I asked him about it. He explained that if I did have a car and did want to drive the Army would probably give me from 14 to 16 days to make the trip and would pay me at least three cents a mile. Well I knew that we could make the trip in 7 days or so and at once I had visions of a chance at a week spent at home so I took a deep breath and said to the Clerk – Yes, tell them I do have an Auto and I do want to drive” He said O.K.! So there I was in a self-dug hole without even a chance to talk it over with Marian or you folks or the Neirs.
                        I managed to get a pass yesterday morning and I rushed over to tell Marian the news (wasn’t able to telephone her Tues. evening because we had a night problem) and as usual she was sweet enough to agree with my decision and so I started out to buy a car! What a job! Went to Tacoma first and grew very discouraged with what I found there – boy, what jaloppies and what prices – for example the best one I saw was a 1935 Plymouth – $596! After Tacoma I came back to a suburban community called South Tacoma and had little luck there Went then to Olympia and at the first place found the best proposition of the day – a 1935 Chevrolet 4 door sedan recently repaired (a poor job but it covered the rust spots) The dealer (a very nice guy) insisted that the car had but one previous owner (he offered to give us their name) and I have faith he was right because the car hasn’t been hurt in any serious accident The motor sounded good, the tires have quite a lot of tread and have not been recapped, the battery is new. Well as you have guessed when Marian got in from the Fort and had looked the car over and we had taken a ride we bought it! How much$ Well I’m ashamed to say – $525 – isn’t that terrible? Yes, it’s terrible and also foolish probably but there are foolish days. We decided we’d just spend the money we have saved and let the chips fall where they may. How did we get the money – well we used the C.O.D. system – you know Call On Dad – this time Dad Neir! We called them last night and had them telegraph the money today – Marian will close the deal tomorrow night and we’ll be able to get the certificate of registration etc. by Saturday!
                        So that’s that! Plans now are that we’ll leave here next Wednesday (15th) early in the morning I hope – will probably take us at least six days to get to Michigan considering that the old bus gives us no trouble. I still don’t know when I’ll have to be in Virginia but am hoping it’ll be around the 30th. We’ll be waiting to spend a day or so in Granville but I guess we’d better not make too many plans until we put some of those numerous miles between here and the Middle West behind us.
                        And so it begins to look like the travelling Mahards are ready to take to the road again We’re looking forward to a grand trip home through some country I’ve not seen before and we have our fingers crossed hoping nothing mars our hastily laid plans.
                        Guess that’s pretty much the story – exciting, eh? Hope I’ll be able to fill in the details in person a little over ten days from now.
                        Marian was going to tell her boss today that she is leaving – they’ll be disappointed because she had really made good and was going to be given a better job but that’s the Army as they say here – a person never knows what’s coming next all one can do it make the decisions if need be and hope he has guessed right.
                        It’s past bed time now so I’ll close we’ll keep in touch with you regarding any new developments.
                        By the way don’t let our coming alter in any way any vacation plans you may have made
                                                Goodnight now, Folks
                                                                Love         Dick
137th day [box drawn around 137th day]                                                   Thurs. Morning
Sept. 6, 1945
Dear Folks,
                Starting off another day of waiting for something to happen. I seriously doubt if anything will happen, but in the Army one can only “sweat it out”, wonder, and hope. However, generally speaking, this is not a bad place for waiting – for example it’s now 8:15 a.m. and it’s still fifteen minutes until time for late breakfast! Breakfast at 8:30 – that’s hard to believe isn’t it? I stay over in the city with Marian get up at 7:00 – 15 minutes to dress 15 minutes to drive over here – certainly glad we have Georgie! – arrive here at 7:30 I change into my fatigue clothes and help clean up the barracks – then it’s time for breakfast. After breakfast the day’s work starts – yesterday for example we mowed grass all day – well, not really all day 2½ hours in the forenoon and 1½ hours in the afternoon Days before yesterday we spent the day building little fences for the intersections of sidewalks to keep the fellows from walking on the grass. Very important duties – telling you – calls for no less than four years college education!
                There are about ½ dozen of us in the technical detachment at the moment – 2 chemists (one with his PhD) and 2 physicists and another whose specialty I’m not acquainted with. The others have all been here about a week longer than I have and are just waiting. Here’s the dope in short concerning this whole deal – First of all at Camp Atterbury I should have been picked out and assigned to an Army organization known as the “New Developments Division”. I would then have been sent to Camp Lee, Virginia for my six weeks basic training; at the end of the training I would have been brought here to Fort Myer just as I now have been and then would have been assigned to some job where my education would have been of some use. Well, as I said, the first move should have taken place at Atterbury but someone slipped up and I was sent way out to Fort Lewis What finally happened I don’t know, but some one must have been checking my records, found the mistake and ordered me sent here to Fort Myer. So you see when I arrived here on the 28th this Mr. Emerson, who is in charge of assigning us, was completely surprised to see me and I had to explain to him what I was doing here – some stuff!! So now Mr Emerson (formerly a mechanical engineering instructor at a college in Vermont) is trying to find an assignment for me. Of course, the end of the War has made things pretty complicated and most Army organizations are trying to get rid of men rather than take them on. There is some work going on in the far Pacific area which I could do (Sherm Neuschel’s over there now) but they can’t figure out a way to cut the red tape to get me there.
                So we wait — it’s a mess because Marian doesn’t know whether to look for a job or not because any day I may be assigned no know  telling where but on the other hand there is a possibility I’ll be assigned here in Washington or perhaps I’ll sit around here and wait for several days or weeks more. We’ve had quite satisfactory places to stay, but they’ve cost us much more than they’re worth. But that’s life in the Army and we’ll live through it probably and laugh about it later.
                Soon the colleges and schools will be opening and like a retired fire horse I’m anxious to go, but not this year I guess – by next year I hope!
Love,                        
Dick                
[logo of the Military district of Washington D.C.]
MILITARY DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, D.C.
SAT MORN SEPT 15 ‘45
Dear Folks,
                Its raining here this morning and that interferes with our usual activity involving picking up cigarette buds and match sticks and gum wrappers so I’ll jot down a few lines. I forgot to bring my regular stationary over from [-?] the city this morning so this will have to do.
                Well I still know practically nothing about my future – however, I did call Mr. Emerson yesterday and he told me that he had turned me over to the Army Air Forces for duty and that they’ll be sending orders through on me one of these days! He indicated that the orders should be coming through soon – sorta expected them today maybe they’ll still come it’s early yet.
                I have little or no notion what kind of assignment the one with the Air Forces will be nor do I have any notion where it will be. Next to the last time I talked to Mr. Emerson he asked me if I knew anything about soils – he said the Air Forces wanted someone for some sort of research project on that subject. It sounded sort of good to me so I said yes I think I could handle the thing O.K. (I don’t really know anything about soils but I figure I can learn) I suppose the Air Forces are interested in knowing how various kinds of soil affects the building of airfields – for example the nature of the soil affects the rate at which the field would become muddy and the rate at which it would dry out the nature of the soil would also be important if grinding and filling had to be done when the field was being built – some soils are more easily compacted than others.
                So much for that – of course my assignment may be an entirely different one than this soils study one – the Army can change its mind you know!
                Am sure Marian has written to you about her new job Its quite similar to the one she had at Ft. Lewis – working in an office which hires people to work in the cafeterias in the Gov’t buildings. She fills out the million and one papers which have to be made out these days – takes the people’s fingerprints etc. etc.She is paid pretty well and also receives her morn meal free – so it’s a good job generally speaking. Don’t know what she will do if I’m transferred away from here – Last spring Virginia Neuschel wanted Marian to stay on in Washington and live with her – perhaps that’ll work out now – Virginia is in Granville now visiting her mother – will be coming back here in a week or two.
                Well it’s a couple of hours later than when I started this letter and no orders yet – not today now I’m afraid. Our duty is over at noon today. I’ll probably stay and eat and then go over to the city to meet Marian
                Don’t know if the long awaited [-?] Tigers - Senators series can go on today or not – the rain still comes down intermittently Everyone here is pretty excited about the chances of Washington beating out the Tigers for the pennaut. Guess every reserved seat has been sold out for a couple of weeks for this series of fire games.
                Darn glad to hear about the high price of grapes – wouldn’t it be nice to have five hundred tons or so to sell at that price? Don’t work too hard now harvesting that crop you two!
                Have to finish this up now We’ll let you know whats what as soon as we know.
                                                Love Dick
148th day [Box drawn around 148th day]                                          Monday Sept 17, 1945


Dear Folks:
                Washington is getting sideswiped by the Florida hurricane today I guess – at any rate the rain is really coming down by the bucket full and it’s not a thunder shower in fact it feels very much like a good old fall rain.
                No news yet today about my future – thought I might hear something today but perhaps Monday is not really a good day to expect much to happen – well, can only wait and wonder when it is going to come!
                We had a nice day yesterday and the whole thing was unexpected. As we were eating breakfast I happened to look up and there were Catherine and Charlie Carlston – I knew them both at Columbia. Catherine graduated from Denison and they visited us once in Granville. Charlie works for e U.S. Geological Survey – has been in Alabama r almost five years – and is here in Washington doing some office work. However, he’s quitting the Survey and is taking a teaching job at St. Lawrence Univers in Canton, New York – it’s a small college similar to nison.
                Well we talked to the Carlstons for a long time while eating breakfast and then since Charlie had never seen Mt. Vernon we decided to drive down there. Spent most of the day that way but on the way back we stopped in at the very new modern and magnificent Washington Municipal Airport to watch the plans come and go – had a nice dinner there and then drove on into the city.
                Charlie tells me that some of the other Columbia people are at the Survey and we’re all going to try to get together – hope I’m still around here when the time comes.
                Looks like Congress and the Army are going to have a knock down fight over the matter of demobilization and drafting 18 year olds, doesn’t it? The Army is going to find out they’re not running the country any longer. However, as I analyze it I’m going to be lucky to be out a year from now no matter what happens – right at the moment I’m in about the worst possible position as far as getting discharge is concerned – not old enough, no points to speak of no children etc. etc.!! However, be out soon enough to start teaching again next fall – it seems a long way off now.
                There’s no other news so I guess I’d better call this all for this time.
                                                                So long, Folks
                                                                        Love
                                                                Dick and Marian
153rd day [box drawn around 153rd day]                                        September 22, 1945
So. Post, Ft. Myer, Va.
Dear Folks,
                We were certainly pleased to receive your letter yesterday – we hadn’t had a word from Michigan for several days. Marian is wondering if something could have happened to her Grandmother which was keeping Mother Neir from writing – maybe we’ll hear from yrs. today.
                Things go on here in about the same way we’re getting pretty fed up just waiting – never knowing when something is going to happen or what is going to happen gets pretty exasperating. If we had a way of knowing whether I’m to stay here in Washington we could make some move toward trying to find an apartment but as it is all we can do is hang onto our dreary little room and wait – will be four weeks this coming Tuesday!
                As Marian said on the card she wrote last night I’m making a struggle for a discharge. I heard that one of the educational organizations had advised the various colleges that the Army would consider applications for discharge from former teachers if the applications were accompanied by letters from the institution stating the nature and importance of the teacher’s work. I wrote at once to Pres. Brown and Prof. Wright and asked them to investigate the matter and send me the letters so I can make the application at once. I’m certain that Prof. Wright will do all he can because he’s very anxious to have me back at Denison by February so that he can take the semester off as he planned to do before I was drafted. I think Pres. Brown will cooperate too. However, how the Army will react is an entirely different question. I really don’t think there’s a chance in a million that it will go through but it is worth a try! Boy, wouldn’t it be wonderful though – so wonderful! I don’t dare think of it!
                So the Delewares are about ready to pick – how much are they going to bring this year? Ought to be quite a lot if Concords are slated to bring over a hundred per ton. Golly, I wish we could be there at the farm with you for the next month!
                Has a nice time Wednesday night at the Camerons – had dinner with the Carlstons first, then the four of us drove out to the Camerons very ni apartment in Virginia. Had a great time talking over old times. We also had a telephone call from Ralph Millers last night but we may not see them as they were leaving town again today for a week – they were staying at Sherm and Virginia's apartment. Virginia is due back in to town Tuesday they told us. The rent on our room is up on Monday we may telegraph Virginia to see if we could stay with her Tuesday night if we’re still here.
                Guess that’s all for now – write to us because our’s is a lonesome life these days!
Love,                        
Dick + Marian                
Dear Mom and Dad,
        We met a couple from Columbia at breakfast yesterday morning – he works for the Survey and is in Washington for two weeks making some reports, and we happened to run into them at breakfast! Spent the day with them – went to see Mt. Vernon, and then stopped at the Airport and watched the planes come in for about two hours, and then had supper on the observation balcony. There is still no news about Dick. I’m at work now and it is just about time to go home so I’m hoping Dick will have some news tonight! I just got so uneasy waiting around I got this pretty good job – making out papers for people that this company hires – I do all the finger printing of [illegible] person too. Loads of love to you both, m.
201st day                                Pvt. R.H. Mahard, 35985368                        Wright Field
                                        9817 Technical Service Unit                     November 9, 1945
                                        Corps of Engineers
                                        Engineer Board
                                        Ft. Belvoir, Virginia
Dear Mother and Dad:
                Well here I go again – this time to Ft. Belvoir, Virginia (20 miles down Potomac from Washington, D.C.) There are three of us Larry Craig, Ed. Eckington and myself are supposed to leave this afternoon – Ed. and Larry have permission to ride with me – but Larry’s wife and child are in Springfield and he’ll probably take them to his wife’s home in Baltimore by train and Ed. wants to go to New York City tonight to see the men in the office of the Company for which whom he worked. It will probably turn out that I’ll leave here about Monday alone with Georgie (nickname of auto (a 1935 chev.)) and all our barracks bags and then we’ll all meet in Washington. We won’t know for sure until this afternoon when we have to report in at Belvoir so when we meet in Washington will depend on that.
                Marian is going to stay on here in Dayton at least for a while or until I can find out what the “deal” is going to be in Virginia. If it should appear that it’s a  somewhat permanent assignment she’ll join me. We had a letter from Virginia Neuschel saying that she may have a chance to go to Tokyo on a job for the Survey so their apartment might turn out to be available – it’s within driving distance of Belvoir though it’s quite a ways – 15 miles or so!
                There was no reaction one way or another to our leaving the Hydroponics Unit. I think the officers are convinced that sooner or later the Hydroponics set-up will collapse so it doesn’t matter much if they lose a few men.
                Guess that’s about all for now. Will let you know about new developments. So long, folks
                Love, 
                        Dick
Fort Belvoir
Noon, Monday Nov 26 ‘45
Dear Folks:
                Still here but trying valiantly to get away and up to Fort Myer. We found out this morning that there were supposed to have been orders waiting for us transferring us to Myer when we arrived but as usual something went wrong somewhere and the orders are held up or lost somewhere along the line. I get so damn disgusted with the way things run in this Fool Army that I could scream. 
                While we were waiting around this morning we, on our own volition, got some more shots. I got three more and Larry got four – don’t know what effect they’ll have on us but so far we’re surviving. Suppose if we hadn’t taken it upon ourselves to get this matter out of the way, they’d have forgotten all about it and then we’d have been held up somewhere else.
                We haven’t been able to find out yet from anyone how much clothing etc. we’re going to be able to take with us, and we don’t know who is supposed to issue it. 
                Our trip from Michigan wasn’t bad at all. We stayed just east of Pittsburgh Saturday night! Used the Pennsylvania Turnpike to get across the worst of the hills yesterday and arrived in Washington about 3 oclock. Went directly to the Miller’s and they received us very cordially. Ralph had sent us a very nice post card to Ypsi inviting us to stay with them.
                Sherm Neuschel is back from Japan and we’re going to see them tonight at the Millers – will be glad to talk to Sherm. The Survey wants him to turn right around and go back to Japan on this natural resources survey which they’re conducting. Don’t think he wants to go very badly though! Virginia would probably go too if he does go!
                Well the snow you had in Lawton didn’t spread very far. Dad Neir said there was only a couple of inches at the Lake and there is no snow at all this side of the mountains. However I guess that streets had been slippery in Pittsburgh Saturday morning because that night people were driving around with chains on. We had an awful nice time at the farm – am always sorry we have to leave so soon but perhaps one day we can stay for a long time. This business can’t last forever.
                Will close now and will write again just as soon as I have any more news.
                Don’t worry now
                                Love,
                                        Dick
Pentagon Bldg
Thurs, November 29, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad,
                        Still here – this is the dope at the moment. We’re scheduled to leave Washington by train December 5 and will depart by plane for Tokyo on the 9th! We’re a little disappointed because we had thought we would fly from here to the coast too and I was certainly looking forward to seeing the country from the air — but it looks like the train at the moment!
                        So you see there was no hurry to get us back so quickly from our furlough after all. Sorta makes a person mad! We are still stationed at Ft. Belvoir, but they put us on a three day pass from there to come up here to work. The orders transferring us from there to Ft. Myer are working their way through channels but no telling how long it will take for them to make it. We think we’ll probably get the weekend off so now Marian and I are trying to decide what to do. She was going to leave tomorrow morning, but if she would wait until tomorrow night I could leave with her and drive her all the way to Granville by Saturday night and then come back on the train. What to do?
                        We have spent the last three days here at the Pentagon familiarizing ourselves with the various procedures involved in marking maps. Yesterday we visited the pig plant where the work of preparing the copy and printing the maps is actually done – it was a very interesting day.
                        Marian and I visited the Neuschels last night. Sherm is going back to Japan after Christmas and Virginia is going with him – they’re quite excited about it!
                        Yesterday Marian managed to get the car into a garage to have the brakes relined – it’s to be finished today! That’ll be a good job done. Had a flat tire too the other day – a slow leak again.
                        We’re taking the Millers out to dinner tonight – it’s little enough to do for them – they’ve certainly been nice to us!
                        Oh yes, Prof Wright is going to let me borrow the camera to take along. It takes colored pictures and film is quite available. I’m glad about it! He’s sending it to me here in Washington ℅ Neuschel’s.
                        That’s all for now I guess
                                                Love,
                                                        Dick
Tues, December 4, 1945
Pentagon Bldg.
Dear Mother and Dad,
                        Still here – sitting around waiting to find out when our train leaves for San Francisco. It seems to Larry and me that they’ve waited a little long to make the reservations, but I suppose they know what they’re doing. It will probably work out that we’ll not get to California by the 9th but apparently that doesn’t matter too much They don’t assign us to a plane definitely until we’re actually on the spot and have undergone the necessary processing – processing which involves the weight of our baggage, something regarding rules and regulations while in flight etc. etc.
                        I’m still staying at the Millers – they’re kind enough to put up with me. Just had a thought – do you suppose Mother you could pack three or four jars of Jams and Jellies in a small box and send it to them. I think they’d enjoy them a lot; I’ve noticed they have jelly almost every morning and it’s “store” stuff. Their address is: 1308 35th St N.W.
 [arrow pointing above first line of address] Mr + Mrs Ralph L. Miller
Washington, D.C. [dotted box drawn around entire address]
                        I’d certainly appreciate your doing this for me!
                        Well we had a quick trip from here to Ohio this past weekend. The roads were fine except for about 40 miles as we crossed the highest parts of the plateau. We got in to Granville about 5:30 p.m. Saturday evening and got a room at the Inn so that we could be alone and our own bosses. We visited with the Felts on Saturday night. We both woke up Sunday morning feeling very punk but managed to recover in time to go to church. Visited the Steckles for a couple hours Sunday afternoon then installed Marian at Lousie Wrights. My train left Newark at 6:05 and was on time – it was certainly pretty hard to say goodbye – I felt very sorry for Marian but she was very brave about it – what a marvelous person she is. At Pittsburgh I had to change trains and I managed to obtain an upper berth into Washington – it was expensive but well worth it. Train was on time Monday morning in Washington and Larry and I made connections and got down to Belvoir at 9:10.
                        After prodigious effort involving much red tape we managed to get away from Belvoir by nightfall yesterday (Monday) This morning we reported in at Ft. Myer and at the same time we reported in we began to “clear” the place. It’s all very confusing to everyone concerned. They did manage to pay us though and that pleased me. While I’m thinking of it they took no bond out for November (it simplified things to do it that way) so one will not be coming along for that month!
                        The two captains who are going with us to Japan reported in today none the worse for their experience of being forced down in Missouri.
                        As yet we do not know our overseas address. They still don’t know the war is over and keep it secret until we leave!
                        No word either concerning the promised promotions However once we are settled I’m confident they’ll try to do something about it.
                        Guess that’s the news for the moment.
                        Oh, yes, the camera arrived from Granville so I ought to have some pictures of our adventures.
                        So long, folks, write often when you finally get my address.
                                                                                Love,
                                                                                        Dick
230th day in the Army [box drawn around]                                           Sat. forenoon Dec. 8, 1945
                                                                        E. of Ogden, Utah
Dear Folks:
                Heading west across the snowy landscape of far western Wyoming. This is the first time I’ve seen this country in the winter and it certainly has a different and very spectacular type of beauty. We have seen quite a few sheep grazing but what they’re eating other than snowballs is a mystery to me. 
                Our train is about 2½  hours late. It left Chicago 2 hours late so we’re not doing as badly as it sounds. I’ve not been, however, so very favorably impressed with the Union Pacific railroad – at least not by this train which is called “the Challenger”. Just a few minutes ago a Greyhound bus went past us on the highway along side – this in spite of the fact that the road appears to be quite slippery.
                Looks now as though we’ll arrive at San Francisco about noon tomorrow. Hamilton Field is about 50 miles out of the city.
                Neither of our Captains is now with us. We left one in Washington and the other in Chicago. The latter decided to stay over until Friday in Chicago so that he could see his girl friend who was coming down from St. Paul. He’s doing it very unofficially so we’ll sorta have to “cover up” for him!
                I slept very well Thursday night but last night it was colder than the dickens and two blankets weren’t enough. The heat from the steam pipes just doesn’t get up to the upper berths! Its real warm in the car now though!
                Sorta funny to look out at all this snow and to think that before the week ahead is over we’ll be in Hawaii.
                Larry Craig happened to see one of the fellows from the Wright Field hydroponics unit in Chicago on Thursday. He told Larry that the whole hydroponics program has folded up! So now we wonder what would have happened to us had we stayed at Wright Field. But then that’s over and there’s no use even guessing!
                After you have my address write often. Send John’s address too will you?
                Getting close to Ogden will mail this there!
                So long, Folks
                                                        Love,
Don’t work too hard at                                                Dick
that trimming, Dad!
Hamilton Field, Calif
Thurs. Dec 13, 1945
Dear Folks:
                Still haven’t taken off and it looks like we will not be until about next Monday. The three of us and one of the Captains are all ready to go but the other Captain who arrived Tuesday afternoon had not had all the necessary shots and he can’t finish them up until Monday.
                Larry and I have been staying with Ed. and his wife at the home of some friends of theirs down near Palo Alto (50 miles from the Field). And what a home it is – a house in about the 25000 dollar class I’d guess, four acres of beautifully landscaped ground, a Japanese house man and a Japanese gardener etc. etc. And the funny part is we’re here all alone – the people who own the house live during the winter in San Francisco in an apartment. What a life!
                We’ve had a chance to look around San Francisco quite a bit. Had dinner at fishermans wharf Tues. nite. We don’t have to go out to the field today – will probably go in to Palo Alto and visit the Stanford University campus.
                If you send mail to me at A.P.O. 4260 San Francisco, California it will reach me. That however is not our permanent A.P.O. number – we’ll not know it until we reach Tokyo. A six cent airmail stamp is all that is needed for A.P.O. mail.
                That’s all for the moment.
Send John’s address!                                                        Love,
                                                                                Dick
Monday Afternoon
Dec 17, 1945
Dear Folks:
                Still here and it looks very much as though we may be here for 2 or 3 days yet! The one Captain finally got his medical clearance this morning but now there is no plane available. All the planes have been loaded down with #1 priority cargo and passengers and we’re travelling on a #3 priority. I hardly dare think of the fact that they limited our furloughs to ten days because there was such a need for haste!
                Ed Ekland’s wife left yesterday evening for Los Angeles so now we’re without an automobile. We’ll have to stick around the field pretty closely.
                We’ve certainly been having nice weather though. Yesterday and today are both sunny and bright – temperatures in the 50ties! Paper tells us today that winter has really come your way.
                I sent a package off by express to the farm for Marian today – hope it arrives by Christmas. Suppose I should have gotten it off sooner! I’m sorry her vacation will be so short. Got some letters from her today – she sounds as though she’s enjoying her work. Hope it is true!
                A lot of U.S.O. CampShow people have just gotten aboard a plane here – have certainly seen a lot of them since we’ve been hanging around here – they don’t look very much like “show people” should look!
                Not much else to write I guess. If I hear when we’re leaving I’ll send a night letter to Marian an have her call you.
                                                So long, Folks
                                                                Love
                                                                        Dick
244th day [box around] 8 months in [box around]                                  Hamilton Field, California
December 22, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad,
                        Well here we sit and it looks more and more like we’ll be a sittin’ for a while yet. We found out yesterday that for some reason the theatre command in Japan has stopped all movement of #3 priority passengers – that’s us!! In fact for a while no one was moving to Japan not even #1 passengers. As I say no reason is given for their action. So all we can do is wait until a telegram comes from the theatre releasing us – when that happens we’ll move out quickly because we’re pretty well toward the top of the #3 list!
                        We haven’t been doing much this week. We were put to work on Wednesday helping with some filing in one of the offices here at the terminal. There’s not enough work to keep us very busy so we have time for letter writing etc. Suppose we might as well have something to keep us occupied – but they’ve not put the Captains to work and they – the Captains – have really been dodging adroitly. It’s the same old story – the gravy goes to the officers or so it seems!
                        By the time this reaches you Christmas will be over. I’m sorry Marian had such a short vacation. I can’t understand why the President didn’t at least give them the day after Christmas off so that the people who went visiting would not have to leave to return on Christmas day. I think President Brown feels that the faculty at Denison is a little sensitive about the rising costs of administration during the past few years and if he allowed the administrative personnel too much time off it would look more and more as though quite so many were not needed! I hope, Mother, that your gift to Marian and mine were not the same. I meant to write to you to tell you I had in mind getting her a cosmetic kit, but by the time I had actually decided to buy it, it was too late to let you know. I’m wondering if mine arrived on time I sent it from here via express last Monday – but with rail transportation as badly snagged as it is I’m very much afraid that it will not have arrived. If it does come too late – you’ll send it on to Marian, won’t you?
                        We have not decided what we will do if we’re here for Christmas – probably nothing different than usual. This will just have to be one Christmas that doesn’t count. Certainly hope that we can make up for it next year.
                        Boy, we’ve certainly had a couple of rainy days here – it looks as though it wants to clear up today but on Thursday and Friday it really came down. From what I read in the papers you’ve been having a bit of weather yourself.
                        By the way I got your letter and was glad to have it. Hope that John is able to make it down on Christmas for a little while. I think he’s wise to have a lawyer – those divorces can be tricky affairs.
***
                        Later now – well it decided it wanted to rain some more and believe me it’s really coming down.
                        I just finished writing a letter to John – thought he might like to hear what’s been happening to me after being in on the beginning of the story at Thanksgiving.
                        So you discovered some “Southern Comfort” did you, Dad? What do you think of it? Sorta always went up my nose!
                        Too bad about John Robinson but it had to come sooner or later – he had a good long life! Bet it was a big funeral Clip the story out of the Lawton Leader and send it to me. Did you put that story in about me?
                        Mother, I certainly appreciate your sending the jelly to the Millers in Washington and there was no hurry about it at all. They’ll enjoy it I know.
                        Guess I’m about at the end of my rope for this time.
                        An announcement just came over the loud speaker wanting someone to share a roommate on a pullman leaving tonight for Chicago – wow would I like to be the one.
                                                                So long now, Folks
Happiest of New Years!                                                        Love
                                                                                        Dick
Monday Morning, Dec. 24, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad:
                        
                        There is no work to do right at the moment around the office where we do our filing so I’m going to borrow a typewriter and pound out a few lines to you folks.


                        It’s raining here again this morning. We had a few hours of sunny weather yesterday, but apparently it was too good to last. However, this is the season of the year when rain is to be expected in the San Francisco vicinity. The moisture is turning the grass nice and green and the hills which rise in back of the airport are becoming more and more attractive.


                        One reason for writing this letter is to tell you that yesterday I packed a box and sent it off to you express collect. I think however you’ll agree with me when you see the contents that the effort and cost were worthwhile. You see the barracks in which we are living is inhabited mostly by fellows who are just passing through here on their way to their separation centers. The boys don’t much care what happens to their clothes and equipment and they have a tendency to throw at lot of it away. Well, yesterday a bunch of them moved out and after they had left I did a little “salvaging”. My haul netted me two Army blankets, a couple of pairs of trousers, a couple of towels, a pistol belt, a canteen cover and canteen – and a few other items as you shall see when you open the box. Mother, I’d appreciate it a lot if you’s wash out the stuff which is washable (can you do the blankets?) and stow it away with the rest of our junk. Use the blankets of course if you want to! Perhaps I’m silly to mess around with the stuff and to ask you to mess around with it too, but it’s stuff we’ll be able to use sometime on camping trips or field trips. And yesterday I had nothing else to do anyway!


                        It was awful nice to hear your voice yesterday, Mother. That call certainly went through in a hurry – it took less than five minutes. Surprised me because Larry Craig had to wait almost two hours to get a call through to New York City! I had called Ypsi earlier thinking that Marian would be there. I had figured that she’d probably come out to the farm today – (Monday) and would not be going back to Ypsi. I thought she had to be back at work on Wednesday. Glad she didn’t have to, however, because by going back to Ypsi she was able to avoid the long farm-to-Granville drive. With public transportation lines as badly jammed as they are I’m certainly glad we hung onto George – Marian seems to have a big time with him! Isn’t the train passenger jam awful? I read about the trouble in Chicago and suppose you have read how terrible it is here. There are fellows sitting on ships in SanFrancisco Bay who have been there for three or four days since arriving home and yet their separation centers may be no farther away than LosAngeles. More of the Army’s stupidity – they made all sorts of provision to bring them across the ocean and forgot, apparently, all about the fact that they’d have to get them away from the port where they landed! 


As you notice from the difference in blackness of letters above I’ve had to change typewriters. One of the secretaries wanted to use the one I was using!


                        Golly, I was glad to hear that John was able to get down to the farm for Christmas – at least I hope he was able to stay.


                        We still don’t know when we’re going to be able to get away from here. Yesterday though we did find out that number three priority people can leave if there is room for them on any of the planes leaving – for the last few days we would not have been allowed to leave even if there had been room – for some reason the theatre command had prohibited their movement of #3s Yesterday some of the U.S. Geological Survey people arrived here to await shipment – they’re on a number three priority also. They grew a little discouraged when we told them we had been waiting here for two weeks. I think, however, we’re quite apt to get away within the next two or three days (How many times previously have it said that) because one of the things which was holding us up was the fact that they were shipping a lot of mail which travels on a number one priority. Now that Christmas is almost over the mail should diminish in quantity. Guess I told you that another thing which was in our way was a great number of U.S.C. show people. Haven’t seen as many of them around these past couple of days!


                        Our Captains have thought of trying to get us a better priority, but by the time they could arrange for it we’ll probably be shipped out. To get a better priority requires telegraphing Washington who in turn must cable the theatre then the theatre cables Washington and Washington telegraphing us – you can readily understand why that procedure would take a long time.


                        We’ve been talking to some of the fellows who have come from Tokyo and from what they tell us we whould be quite comfortable once we arrive there. They say that the enlisted men attached to Headquarters are well housed and very well fed. According to one fellow’s story they even have Japanese servants waiting on tables in the mess hall. Hope the stories are true, but we’re taking the pessimistic view and not building our hopes too high. Am glad we’re not going to Manila – from what we hear that’s just about the worst place in the world! Guess the Japanese completely wrecked that city and the Filipinos are not doing very much to try to get it back in shape.


                        Although we’ve not seen very much of the Captains these past few days, we think they are “allright” guys and we should have a lot of fun with them. We think they’ll stick up for us and that’s pretty important because an officer can do quite a lot for a person. We’re quite confident that they’ll do all they possibly can to get a promotion for us – hope so anyway!


                        Am at a loss to know what to write now so guess I’ll close for this time. Be on the look out for the express package which should be getting there in a week or ten days, and thanks for taking care of the contents for me.


                        Write often – only one letter since I’ve been here-that’s not enough!


                        Happy New Year!                                Love,
                                                                                Dick
Harmon Field, I. of Guam
Monday Dec 31, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad:
                        Well we’re this far - and when I stop to think of it “this far” is a really long ways. I can’t remember when last I wrote to you -did I write from Hawaii? But at any rate here’s how we’re been travelling.
Left Hamilton Field
	Wednesday Dec. 26
	2.00 p.m.
	San Francisco time
	actual flying time 14 hrs 30 min
	Arrived Hickam Field, Hawaii
	Thursday Dec. 27
	2:00 a.m.
	Honolulu time
	Left Hickam Field
	Friday Dec. 28
	2:45 a.m.
	     “           “
	flying time 11 hrs 15 min
	Arrived Kwajalein
	Saturday Dec. 29
	12:30 p.m. 
	Kwajalein time
	Left Kwajalein
	Saturday Dec. 29
	12:45 p.m.
	     “          “
	flying time 8 hrs 15 min
	Arrived Guam
	Saturday Dec. 29
	9:00 p.m.
	Guam time
	

	

	

	

	Total: 34 hours
Total miles: 6400 approx.
	[On the left side of the page in the margin, Mahard wrote “Crossed international date line automatically change to same time next day” next to the dotted line between “Left Hickam Field” and “Arrived Kwajalein”]


                        The above is a record of the trip to here; the last leg now is from here to Tokyo a distance of 1580 miles which will take us 8 hrs. That means then the total trip will require 42 hours of flying time and the distance travelled will be 7980 miles!
                        We didn’t expect to be here today – fully expected to leave last night. In fact three of our party of five did leave – Larry Craig and I were left behind. It seems there wasn’t room on last night’s plane for all of us and our name happened to be at the bottom of the list – and so we were cut off. It looks now as though we’ll get away tonight around midnight.
                        Yesterday we had an interesting day looking around this island which is of course our greatest base in this far western Pacific area. You can’t possibly imagine the tremendous quantity of equipment which there is at this place nor could you imagine without seeing it how greatly the face of the island has been changed by building airports and roads – many of them multiple lane highways – and barracks and docks etc. etc. Believe me it’s a tax payer’s nightmare!
                        Dad, I’m enclosing a little souvenir I picked up yesterday. You may have thought that this particular plant grew only in Van Buren Co. Mich. but you see it is not so. I could have plucked the same souvenir in Hawaii or even on remote Kwajalein!
                        We of course have been having a very interesting time but I as yet can’t make it seem real. Can’t imagine being so far from home and can’t believe we’re actually seeing the places we’ve read about so frequently. Yesterday we saw the little native village of Agaña where a lot of fighting took place when our forces recaptured this island from the Japs. It’s hard to believe that the ruined church and houses and other buildings had once been intact and had been destroyed by shell fire from naval guns. Hard to believe that scars along the rock wall rising in back of the village were made by exploding shells when our forces were trying to get Jap snipers who had “holed up” in caves.
                        Am not going to start another page right now. Marian will send you my letters with all the details.
Jan 1, 1946
                        So Happy New Year, folks – it’ll be three o’clock in the afternoon here when you hear the whistles blow where you are!
So long,                
        Love                
Dick        
________________
December 26, 1945
9:50 p.m. San Francisco time
Dear Mother and Dad,
                We’re probably about 1500 miles out from SanFrancisco and are at an elevation 8000 feet. It’s simply impossible to make it seem real. A person tends to look out the windows every now and then and expects to see houses and gas stations and lights of passing cars – instead only the stars gleam and from where I sit I can see the dull red glow of the hot exhaust stack of one of the engines – it’s proper for it to be red hot I understand so don’t worry.
                What a trip this has been so far! We took off at 2:00 p.m. exactly. For two or three hours there were clouds above and below us but as I say, the stars are gleaming now. We should arrive at Hickam Field (5 miles from Honolulu) about four oclock tomorrow morning (six hours from now) but that will be 1:30 a.m. Honolulu time (7:00 a.m. your time). As we understand it our route from Hickam Field is to Johnston Island, Kwajalein atoll. (in the Marshalls), Guam, Manila, Okinawa, Tokyo. Yes, we’re really going the long way round – this pleases because we’ll have a chance to see a lot more than if we went from Hickam to Johnston to Wake to Marcus to Japan! A plane going that way is about an hour behind us but of course they’ll bet us there by a couple of days. Perhaps more because we’re apt to be held over for a few hours at our various stops!
                This plane called a C54-4 engines is really something. The cabin has 40 seats (that makes the interior considerably larger than the inside of a Greyhound bus – it’s not as large a place, however, as the one we went in at Wright Field) There are only 16 passengers aboard – there are 9 crew members 3 pilots, a radio man, a navigator, an engineer, and 3 flight clerks (one is a WAC). 3 members are extra – they’re just making the trip for practice.
                We had a very nice hot dinner about six o’clock served to us in our seats by the flight clerks. It was really something. 
                Riding the plane is very smooth. Because there is no jerking, reading and writing is very much easier than on a train. There isn’t too much noise – I wouldn’t say it is quiet though and you can feel the vibration when you lean on the seat arm.
                I’ve written a long letter to Marian which she’ll send to you describing the trip in great detail so I’ll not write it all over again.
                By the way I sent another box of “loot” off to you today just before we left so be on the lookout for it.
                Well we’re glad to be on our way at last and the trip has been so exciting so far that we haven’t become fully aware that we’ve really left the country (good old U.S.A.) for no telling how long. That very sobering realization will come to us later without a doubt. But what lies ahead should really be very interesting and it will all be a very valuable experience.
                I had a very nice Christmas yesterday thanks to these two Denison “kids”. They treated me royally and we had a great time talking things over. They even fixed up a Christmas sock for me – so old Santa found me after all! They’ve had a hard time finding any friends who are very much to their liking so I really think they were just about as happy to have me there as I was to be there. They’re really both swell people! I’m sorry I didn’t know sooner that they were at the field!
                And now I must write to the Harveys a “bread and butter” letter so I can mail it at Hickam.
                Goodnight, Mother and Dad – please don’t worry about me any more than you can help. I’ll be all right – I’m sure I will.
                                                                                Love,
        Will send my address as quickly as I can!                                        Dick
Tokyo, Japan
257th day                                                         January 4, 1946


Dear Mother and Dad,
                        First day at work at the office and since no one has given me any work to do I’ll look busy by writing this letter.


                        Yes, here we are at long last. We arrived Tuesday morning; but because that was a holiday, we were not able to get settled down. We were assigned a temporary place to sleep for Tuesday night. Wednesday morning we all got together and found out pretty well what the dope was. Our two captains are not going to be able to establish their office for about three weeks, meanwhile the three of us are going to assist in the work of this office which is doing now about the same kind of work we’re going to be doing later. Essentially our job is to expedite in any way we can the work which is going forward on this large mapping project. The actual work on the mapping is just beginning that means that the Air Corps is taking a few pictures and some unit of the Corps of Engineers is out in the field beginning to do some surveying which is necessary before the maps can be made.


                        We’re pretty well settled in the building where we’re to live. It’s called the Finance Building (it was formerly the headquarters of the Department of Finance of the Japanese Government). It’s a very large place, is five stories high and covers a square block. I have no notion how many men live in the place but there must be three or four thousand. At the moment Larry and I are living in a huge room which must contain about forty beds. Ed, who left Guam a day before we did and hence got here Dec. 31, obtained a bed in a smaller room. Some of the fellows in his room are leaving and we may be able to move in there – it would be a little quieter, but as it happens it’s not so warm.


                As regards eating – we eat in a building which is called the Dai Ichi Building. It is the nicest building in Tokyo and the one in which General MacArthur has his headquarters. It was formerly a bank and also contained the offices of a large insurance company. This company had a very excellent cafeteria for its employees on the seventh floor of the building (the top floor) and that’s where we eat. The food so far has been marvelous!! It is well cooked (by Japanese supervised by G.I. cooks), is abundant, and there is variety to the menus. Its so much better than I ever dreamed it would be that I simply can’t get over it. I keep thinking that the food will get poorer, but so far it hasn’t and the fellows say it has been this good all along. So far the only thing I’ve missed in our diet is such items as lettuce and celery – fresh vegetables. We have a lot of fruit – almost than we can eat. There is no fresh milk, of course. If the food keeps up this way I’m going to get to be a big boy I’m afraid!


                As regards our office – it’s located on the fifth floor of a building called the Forestry Building. Yes, it was formerly occupied by the Department of Forestry of the Japanese Government. The office is nice, there are good wooden desks and tables and bookcases and cabinets etc. just as there would be in any office in the United States. The typewriters of course are ones which the Army brought with them – this one I’m using for example came along with the fellows in this office all the way from New Guinea. Incidentally, the men who are over here with the U.S. Geological Survey have their offices in this building too (on the second floor). Suppose that’s where Sherm and Virginia Neuschel will have their headquarters when they arrive – We haven’t seen much of the U.S.G.S. personnel as yet, but probably will as soon as things get settled down in a little bit.
                        Of course you’re wondering about the city and the signs of the bombing which are to be seen. Well, you can’t imagine how awful it is nor can I describe it to you so that you can get anywhere near the correct picture – you just have to see if to know what it’s like. However, if you imagine about ten thousand lots looking like the J.R. Jones corner in Kalamazoo, you’ll have some notion. We drove through the city for about ten miles coming in from the airport last Tuesday and on both sides of the street and as far back from the street as a person could see at least five sixths of the buildings are gone – they’re not just burned out, they’re burned up entirely! There are hundreds and hundreds of burned up automobiles to be seen, hundreds and hundreds of burned up bicycles, scores and scores of burned buses, and tens and tens of burned streetcars. Factories have been burned down and the machinery sets there rusting. One wonders where all the people have gone who formerly lived in these burned out districts – I can’t figure out where they did go. Some have salvaged bits of sheet metal and have built shacks for themselves, others have crowded into the few remaining buildings, some are living huddled under the tracks of the elevated railway lines, but this accounts for only a few relatively speaking. Great numbers of them must have moved out into the country. We saw a few farm dwellings coming in from the airport and they did appear to be very crowded establishments, but, of course, perhaps they were that way before the war. In one of the rooms over at the building where we live the fellows have “adopted” a little Japanese boy about six years old. Guess he doesn’t have any family at all any longer, but he seems quite content – of course he should be content, he’s lucky – he’s well fed and warm and that’s more than most of the Japanese can say.


                        Right here in the downtown section where the buildings were of brick and stone and cement and steel,they’ve held up a little better. But even so, many more than half of them are burned out. Imagine six or eight department stores caved in. Along the main shopping street of Tokyo which is called the Ginza, the merchants are beginning to try to get back in business – they’re repairing their old buildings if they’re repairable or they’re building new ones. However, the new ones are just little one story frame structure. It’s very interesting to see the carpenters at work – they mortise the beams together and fasten them with pegs just as barns were built in the midwest of the U.S. a hundred years ago. It’s possible to examine the whole framework of a small building and not see over ten or a dozen miles! Don’t know whether they build this way because they have no nails or because that’s the way they’ve always built their buildings. They certainly can work wood beautifully! The wood they’re using at the present time is larger cedar.


                        General MacArthur has his headquarters in the Dai Ichi building (the one where we eat) which is right next to the building where we have our office. We have not seen him yet, but have seen his limousine a couple of times out front waiting for him to come out – a crowd of Japanese and soldiers always gathers to catch a glimpse of him. Believe me you get the impression that he’s really the boss around here!


                        We’ve just returned from lunch. About all I did all morning was work on this letter; did spend about an hour doing some other typing for the Sergeant in charge of the office. Think I’ll call this all for now, however. Below I’ve written out my correct address – it’s a whopper, isn’t it. I asked Marian to type it on some envelopes for you, perhaps she has done so by now. We hear that it takes mail about ten days to reach the states from here and vice versa. Takes packages, we understand, anywhere from four weeks to six weeks!


                                                                        So long, Folks, write often
Pvt. Richard H. Mahard, 35985568
Intel Div, OCE, GHQ, AFPAC
Advance Echelon, Tokyo, Japan                                                Love,
A P O 500, San Francisco, California                                                        Dick




[Arrow pointing to the second line of the address]
Intelligence Division, Office Chief of Engineers, General Headquarters Army Forces of the Pacific
Tokyo, Japan
January 8, 1946 (Tues.)
Dear Mother and Dad,


                        Have I explained to you about the difference in time between where you are and here? Well, we’re 14 hours ahead of you. For example it’s eleven o’clock a.m. Tuesday here – that makes it nine o’clock p.m. Monday in Michigan. You’re probably just going to bed Monday night and here we have half a day’s work done on Tuesday! Seems funny doesn’t it?


                        Things go on here in a rather unexciting fashion. We’re pretty well settled into the routine. We go to bed pretty early and I personally get up pretty early. I arise at six o’clock and go down to the basement of the building where we live (our room is on the 4th floor) where the showers are located and draw myself a steel helmet full of hot water. (There’s no hot water anywhere in the building except in the basement and oftentimes even that supply is exhausted.) I carry the helmet full of water to a nearby lavatory where there is a mirror and do my shaving. After shaving tooth brushing is in order – this must be done using water from my canteen. We’re not supposed to drink the water from the taps of the building and some of us think we ought not therefore use it to brush our teeth. The water to fill our canteens is especially purified and is stored in large canvas bags called “Lister Bags” which hang from tripods along the corridors of our building. 


                        By the time I finish shaving it’s a little after 6:30 usually and I wake up Larry and Ed. By seven o’clock we’ve finished dressing and have made our beds and swept up the room a little bit (we’re not required to have everything in apple pie order the way we were during basic training, but we’re supposed to keep things reasonably neat). We catch the bus from the Finance Building where we live to the Forestry Building where we work, come up stairs to the office to pick up our cup and silverware and the go back downstairs and go next door to the DaiIchi Building where we eat. We usually arrive at the cafeteria before 7:30 so we have a little over ½ hour to eat breakfast before reporting for work at 8:00 or a little after.


                        Our meals continue to be very good. Last night we had steak, mashed potatoes and gravy, asparagus, parker house rolls with gobs of butter, chocolate cake, coffee. They continue to have a big bin of Washington State apples and a bin of local Japanese tangerines and one can help himself to these and take all he wants. I’m glad we have the apples – they help make up for the one lack in the menu – fresh green vegetables such as lettuce and celery!


                        The weather has been good. Every day since we’ve arrived has been sunny except this past Sunday. It is quite cold – temperatures hover near the freezing mark. How some of the people stand the cold protected no better than they are is beyond me. Last Sunday we went for a long walk and we saw quite a few people wearing their clog-like shoes without any stockings of any sort and we saw one little boy about three who was playing in the street without any shoes or stockings at all – at the same time we were just about freezing ourselves. Yesterday I went with one of the fellows to the main postoffice here in Japan – the place was entirely filled with blue smoke from numerous little wood fires which the employees keep burning in little clay pots to keep their hands warm. There is no other heat in the building.


                        I think I’ve forgotten to say in any of my letters that the automobile traffic here all moves on the left hand side of the street. It’s very difficult to grow accustomed to it – when one starts to walk across a street, he must first look to the right instead of the left. It’s a darn wonder that the Americans haven’t all been hit! One also sees quite a lot of Japanese automobiles which run on the gas generated in a charcoal burner. It’s very strange to see them going down the street with steam issuing from the complicated looking apparatus on the back end of the vehicle! 


                        On Sunday we encountered for the first time the famous “honey-bucket” man of Japan. He’s the fellow who goes around each day with a cart loaded with wooden buckets of about ten gallon size into which he dumps the waste material from the Japanese equivalent of our bathrooms. He then hauls his load out into the country and it is used for fertilizer. Dad, if you think that horse manure makes your grapes grow, you ought to try some of that stuff. Wow! To get to the leeward of one of those loads of buckets is almost a guarantee that you’ll have the tissues in your nose burned out. How the fellow who hauls the load around (usually by hand – sometimes he has a horse) can stand it is beyond me!


                        Yesterday we made some inquiries downstairs in the geology section to see what the possibilities were that we could transfer to that work. When we walked in the office they already knew our story – that is, they knew that we were here in Tokyo and they were more or less expecting us to drop in. The man we talked to was Tom Hendricks, the boss of the project, he said that they were very short of help and certainly would like it if we could be transferred to them. “No go”. The captains appreciated our position but said that right at the moment it was impossible for them to let us go. They did promise that sometime later after their work gets under way they may reconsider the proposition. I’m not as disappointed as the other fellows – especially Larry – because I’m not entirely certain I’d like the geology work any better than the work we’ll be doing for the Captains once we get started at it!


                        We certainly are missing our mail. It’s hard to think that it may be several days yet before your letters will reach us. It takes mail just about ten days to make the trip. You should be receiving my address about the 9th or 10th and then it’ll take your letters ten days to get back here.


                        Guess that’s about the story for this time. Be sure to write often after you get my address. It still doesn’t quite seem real that we’re here and are so far from home, but one day we’ll get back – wish I knew when!
                                                                        Much love,


                                                                                Dick
Sherm and Virginia Neuschel are not coming to Japan I guess. There is a regulation prohibiting man and wife combinations. Guess General MacArthur is the only one whose wife is allowed!
Tokyo, Japan                
Monday Morning        
January 14, 1946        
Dear Mother and Dad,


                        I wanted you to have the story of our past week-end as soon as possible so I made a carbon copy of it for you – sent the original to Marian.


                        We certainly had a good time and it was a very interesting experience. And the fact that it cost us nothing does not detract from the enjoyment of the week-end. Don’t worry about our selling the stuff to the Japanese. Yes, I suppose it’s a “black market” of sorts but actually it’s a harmless one and the authorities pay little attention to it. That is they pay no attention to it so long as the soldiers sell only things which they buy at the Post Exchanges. If the soldiers began to sell their equipment – that is their clothing etc. – that would be, and is, a different matter. We, of course, would not do anything like that!


                        I thought you might like to show the enclosed story to Mr. Spicer – he might enjoy reading it. I don’t think the part about selling things would matter do you? You do as you please, of course! If you do show it to him, tell him I’m sorry I didn’t pay a little more to the sentence construction, grammer, punctuation, etc. I wrote it directly onto the sheet without making a first draft and I’m afraid it shows it!


                        The Captains told us this morning that the Colonel who will be our boss has arrived and we’re to have a conference with him tomorrow morning. So we’ll probably know a little better where we stand at that time.


                        We’re hoping that sometime this week we’ll begin to receive some mail and it certainly will be swell.


                        Guess that’s about all for this time. Will write frequently. You do the same.


                                                                        Love,
                                                                                Dick


[Arrow drawn from paragraph beginning with “The Captains told us”] 
Just talked to the Captains again and they say that until after the first of the month we’ll just sit tight as we are.
Sunday, January 13, 1946
STORY OF A WEEK END AT ATAMI


        It began on Saturday afternoon at 4:30. We had obtained permission to leave the office a little early. We caught at train at the main Tokyo station at 4:40 which would take us to Atami which is a small resort city along the coast about 60 miles or so from Tokyo. There were five in our party – Larry, Ed, and myself and Bruce Hughes and another boy from the office named George Burridge. Bruce was the leader of the expedition; he had been to Atami twice before and early this past week he had written to reserve a room for us at the small hotel where he had previously stayed. 


        The train was very prompt in departing – it seems that that’s almost a fetish with Japanese trains – but it was very crowded. As soldiers in the U.S. Army we are entitled to travel free on trains so we had no problem of tickets. We at first tried to find seats in the “first-class” coach (it’s marked by a light blue band running the length of the car) but discovered it crowded and also quite undesirable because one of the toilets (the only toilet, I guess) had run over all over the floor and the smell was “out of this world”. We searched elsewhere for a seat, but the people were jammed in in a fashion which I really and truly think rivalled anything I’ve ever seen in a New York subway. Another opportunity remained for us and we took it – we went to the baggage car and found it unoccupied except for a small amount of express which we readily converted into make-shift seats. The baggage-men were entirely content to have us.


        The weather was cold and there was plenty of air in our car after we got to moving inasmuch as one of the doors on one side of the car was completely missing and the windows were broken out of the doors on the other side. We moved up toward the front of the car forward of the doors and it wasn’t so bad. Presently one of the baggagemen made us a handsome “presento”. He came out of his little compartment with a metal pail, about a gallon size, which was filled with beautifully glowing charcoal. We thanked him profusely and made a “presento” of candy and gum to him in return. We then all gathered around the fire, Bruce shed his jacket, we spread it over the fire and over our knees and kept very warm and comfortable throughout the journey!


        We were not alone in the car for very long. At a station about two or three stops from Tokyo a crowd of perhaps 25 or 30 Japanese simply overwhelmed the men who were loading some baggage and clambered aboard the car. You should have seen them – there was a very old lady with a very large and apparently heavy pack on her back, another younger woman with a child strapped to her back and a great bundle in her hand, there was a very dignified looking man of middle age and well-fitting but shabby clothes who was carrying a briefcase, also assorted discharged Japanese soldiers, small children, young girls, etc. These people, however, did not invade our end of the car – they huddled as far to the other end as was possible (it must have been very cold there) and watched us intently as we sat around our brazier laughing and talking.


        Our journey lasted about 2½ hours. There were numerous stops but actually the train travelled smoothly and swiftly; the railroad like most Japanese main lines is electrified. At Atami we had but a short walk from the station to the hotel. It was dark and we could see a little but we knew we were in hilly country, but the picturesqueness was not to be revealed to us ‘till morning.


        When we arrived at the hotel we entered a little lobby and here we removed our shoes! The floor was cold too and the slippers which were available were the Japanese type which depend up a sock with a split between the big and second toe consequently we had to remain stocking footed! We had a little difficulty getting the people to understand about our reservation because the owner was not around and personally my heart sank – I had visions of having to go back to Tokyo or having to look around for another place to stay. The owner – Mr. Takahashi finally appeared and after some discussion (he speaks English a little bit), he let us to our room.


        We had to cross a little court which was cobbled with tiny black pebbles but we didn’t walk on these Instead we walked on wooden slabs cut from the end of a large of log and embedded into the cobbling but projecting perhaps an inch above it. These slabs of course revealed the annular rings of the tree and were very highly polished because they are not stepped on except by feet clad in slippers or stockings. There was a little entry-way to pass through before entering the room itself – in this entry-way even slippers or shed before passing through sliding doors and into the room which was “carpeted” from wall to wall with a mat woven of a very fine stalks of straw. There must be some sort of padding beneath the straw mat also because it “gives” slightly when walked on.


        The only articles of furniture in the room were a large (about five feet in diameter) red lacquered table and two commode-like affairs with drawers and one with a mirror. In one corner was a bamboo frame screen-like apparatus with hooks for hanging our coats. The table was about twelve inches high and lying on the floor around it or pads about two feet square and two inches thick – these of course for “chairs”. Very soon after we arrived the maid appeared – she was dressed in quite a colorful kimono outfit such as the Japanese women wear. Bruce told her we wished to be served some “sukiyaki” and she said, “O.K. “ and departed. We made ready to take a bath.


Actually our room was provided with a private bath, but Mr. Takahashi apologized to us and said that there was no hot water and would be none until morning and would we mind using the “public” bath. So that’s what we did. We took off all our clothes except our underwear and donned of the kimonos which were provided. We crossed the little court again and entered another part of the building and went down stairs. We went into a little dressing room where there were flat woven baskets for our clothes. We noticed that some of the baskets were filled and we saw the owners when we opened a door and entered the bath itself. That is we saw the other people dimly through a thick cloud of steam which was rising from a tub, or shall I say tank, of water in one corner of the tiled room. The tub was oval in shape in about 7 feet long by four feet and about two feet deep. It was filled to the brim and the water was pouring over the edges and into a shallow trough and thence to a drain. Sitting around the floor of the room were some little wooden dishes or basins. One dipped a basin full of water but of out of the tub and sat down on a tiny wooden stool about six inches high and washed himself thoroughly – we provided our own soap and wash cloths. After washing, the water in the basin was poured over oneself and additional water was dipped from the tub to complete the rinsing. Then came time for the immersion! By the time we were ready to immerse ourselves the other people had been in the tub a couple or three at a time and were out again. So in we went and it was marvelous – you can’t imagine how glorious that hot, hot water felt after having been pretty thoroughly chilled by our trip


Three of us were sitting comfortably in the tub and more or less facing the door from the dressing room when in walked a Japanese woman and a little girl about four years old ready to take their bath! Oh! Did I forget to say that the bath was a public one for men and women as is the custom here! The woman was completely unconcerned and took no notice of us and began to be with the child and then herself. Meanwhile we tried, more or less successfully to be unnoticed too! When she had finished washing and bathing she came over to the tub lowered the little girl in and got in herself. She got in at the opposite end from where we were – but opposite ends of a seven foot tub are not far apart, are they? but at that end there were a couple of Japanese men who took no notice of her. Believe me it was a most peculiar experience as far as I’m concerned and yet strangely enough there didn’t seem to be anything very wrong with it.


When we finished our soaking – a person was tempted to stay in the hot water longer than he should – we climbed out and bravely, before going to the bathroom, took a cool shower. We got dressed then and went back to our room. I expected to be cold when we left the bath, but was not. I can’t get over how completely warm that bath made me and how I stayed warm in spite of the fact that our room was not heated in anyway (the outside temperature at Atami was perhaps 45 degrees!)


When we got back to the room the maid has been there and had placed a lacquered box-like affair in the center of the table, in a clay pot in the center of the box was ing a charcoal fire. She came in in a few minutes and placed a pottery bowl over this charcoal flame and began to prepare the sukiyaki. First she poured a sauce of some sort into the bowl and after it was very hot she added some strips of beef, some onions (they looked like very large green onions), some celery cabbage, and I guess that was about all. After this had simmered quite a long time, the stew was done. She dished it out to us on little dishes about the size of saucers and we ate it, with considerable difficulty, with chopsticks! The maid stayed right there and kept dishing the food out until it was all gone. The sukiyaki, although it certainly isn’t anything very elaborate, was very good. There wasn’t enough of it, however, to make us a full meal and we supplemented it with some good old fashioned Army ration beans which we had brought along with us and which they had warmed up for us! Ate the beans with chop sticks and that’s a pretty good trick!


After the meal the maid cleared the dishes and things away and we sat around and talked. It was soon bed time but before we climbed in we all decided to have another bath. There was no female present this time although just as we were leaving the dressing room one arrived and began to prepare to bathe.


While we were bathing, the maid had fixed our beds. They’re very simple affairs just two pads on the floor and kind of a sheet on them and two very think down or lamb’s wool filled comforters. Two of us had very strange pillows filled with hunks of some sort they were quite noisy and not very soft. The rest of us had to use the seat pads for pillows and they weren’t very satisfactory. I seem to be having pillow trouble over here. These people apparently don’t go in for soft headrests!


We all slept quite soundly until about eight o’clock and then Bruce got up and opened up our room. All along one side of the room and for about half the distance along the other there were sliding panels – the inner panels had glass panes in their upper half but the outer ones were intirely of wood. The outer ones were so arranged that they could be slid completely back and past one another and into a wall recess. It’s almost as though the wall of the house was removed. From the windows along one side of the room we could look right out over the city of Atami to the not so distant hills. It was a perfectly gran sight. The whole area of the city is hilly and the houses simply cling to the sides of the hills which drop right down to the sea. From our window we could see the ocean too wit the breakers rolling in.


The maid came in in a little while and we gave her some coffee which we had broug along to prepare for us. They also heated up some “ham, eggs, and potatoes” rations for us and we had these for breakfast. Also had some canned grapefruit and orange juice which we had brought.
[arrow drawn to “fig newtons”] they’re a great delicacy worth over two dollars per box!
Toward the middle of the morning Mr. Takahashi came in and we began to do business with him. Yousee we had brought along a good many things which he wanted to buy – such things as soap, candy bars, gum, canned juice, cigarettes, tobacco etc. While we bargained we drank together a pot of coffee and ate some fig newtons. For some reason, apparently to advise him, he had brought along his head maid (she was the one who prepared the sukiyaki for us the night before) You should have seen them go for the coffee especially after they added liberal amounts of canned cream and great quantities of sugar which we had brought!


When the bargaining was over we had all made enough profit on what we sold to enable us to pay our bill at the hotel. So this trip I’m describing cost us exactly nothing!


For dinner we ordered beef “steaky” which turned out to be very good indeed although there wasn’t much of it and we again had to supplement it with food we had brought along. Perhaps I should explain that one of the officers here at the office got the Army rations for us. The Corps of Engineers has a big supply which they use to feed their field parties.


Very soon after our noon meal we prepared to leave because we wanted to walk about the town a little bit before time to catch the train at 3:00. The town – and it’s little more than that – proved to be a very interesting place. Although picturesque is a trie word I think it’s more applicable to Atami than to any place I’ve ever seen. The streets are very narrow and they wind around this way and that way to surmount the hills. The houses, as I say, are perched on the hillsides and are quite exotic as far as their architecture is concerned. The trees are most frequently pines which often have very interesting peculiarities of shape. And now and then down a street or between the houses and past some trees, one sees the ocean. Far up on the hills above the town are also seen bits of terraced land where some farmer is fighting a difficult battle to make the steep hill side productive.


Just before boarding the train the five of us bought a little woven bamboo basket of tangerines which we enjoyed all the way home. As we rode along we saw the tangerines as well as oranges growing in great abundance because the country around Atami is quite productive of citrus fruit. It seems to me the climate is pretty severe for it to grow but I guess it can’t be because there the loaded trees were! For twenty miles or so north from Atami we were close to the sea and there were many beautiful views but I was equally fascinated by the nature of the agriculture which we saw being practiced. The terracing of some of the slopes was incredibly complex. In the valleys the flatter land was cut up into tiny fields often bordered by stone walls which looked like they must have been built centuries ago and tended since with loving care. Many men were at work in the fields “plowing” them with a tool which resembles a hoe but which has a blade perhaps twelve inches long. They chop away at the soft soil and turn it over in much the same way a gardener turns his soil with a spade.


It was still light enough when we reached the suburban areas of Yokohama to see the tremendous amount of destruction done by the bombing, I couldn’t help but think of how unfortuante the people of this area were compared to the people who live at Atami where there was no sign of war whatsoever.
Monday, January 21, 1946        
Tokyo, Japan                        
Dear Mother and Dad,


                        Tis Monday night here and another week has gotten underway. Things have pretty well settled down into a routine here. This past week I’ve been working in a different office. Have been working, as a matter of fact, for the Geologists down stairs. It’s really quite a coincidence – the fellow who was my immediate boss during that week I worked for the Geological Survey last April is the same man for whom I worked last week and for whom I’m working still at least until this Wednesday. This fellow’s name is Frank Whitmore. Last April he was in Washington in the Military Geology Unit – he has been over here for about four months I think. He was handed a job last week by the men who are running this mapping program – it involved selecting the beaches in Japan which in any future war (isn’t it disgusting to have to talk about the next war) would be the ones most useful in an invasion. Frank was pretty busy and asked for some help if any was available – one of the Captains told him about me and he said send him down. After he saw me he remembered me from last April – I was embarrassed because I did not remember him. (I think I only saw him a couple of times that week because I was working in another room from where he was) At any rate, he’s a very nice guy and he has put me to work on the beach problem and accepts my judgment as an equal – it’s been very nice. After we’ve selected the beaches, they’ll be photographed in quite great detail and the photos will be used in compiling maps and charts and will then be filed away in Washington for future reference.


It’s looking more and more as though the three of us will finally end up in the Geology Section here. Tom Hendricks who runs the outfit is very anxious to have us and the Colonel who is our boss is perfectly willing to give us up when he can find some replacements for us. Both the Colonel and Tom Hendricks are seeking replacements – they’re going to be hard to find (typists for some reason are scarce in the Army) but sooner or later they ought to be able to manage it. Tom told me today that Larry Craig is more suited to do a certain job he has to do (making a geological map of Okinawa) than any man he has available in his section. Isn’t that a pretty mess – Larry’s the best man for the job, he’s anxious to do the job, and yet here he sits idle only three floors away!


I spent a very quiet day yesterday. I came down with quite a cold about the middle of last week and I thought to go galavanting around the country yesterday would not help it any – think it was a good idea to stay home because the cold is really a lot better today. Larry and Ed climbed aboard a train and went out to a small suburban city to look around; they got to talking to a couple of young boys who invited them to their house and Ed and Larry met the whole family – they had quite an adventure.


Hoping that this is the week when some mail will start coming through – it’s been a long time since I’ve had a letter believe me! We heard today though that a lot of planes have been grounded lately by bad weather and I also heard that the Air Corps has discharged so many of their mechanics that they’re having a difficult time keeping planes in the air. I personally wish they’d turn the job of carrying the mail over to one of the private companies who’d love to do the job. I figure you should have received my Tokyo address about the 11th or 12th and then allowing ten days back to here that brings it about the 21st or 22nd.


I suppose you’ll be telling me in a letter which may now be on its way the answer to this question, but I’m wondering if the boxes I sent from Hamilton Field ever reached you. Did you wash out the stuff, Mother? How did the blanket come out? I’m not exactly certain I’ll ever want to see an Army blanket after I get out of this organization, but I suppose I’ll be able to put up with them after a while.


What did you think of the cosmetic case I bought for Marian? I hope Mother that you hadn’t bought her one too. I forgot all about telling you when last I saw you that I thought that that’s what I’d get for her if I had a chance. Marian will like it I think! I’m awfully anxious to have your letters to hear about Christmas and everything. The last letter I received from Marian at Hamilton field was written on December 18th. I received one letter from you folks while we were there.


Our meals continue to be good. We ran out of butter for a couple of days this past week but we’re having it again in liberal quantities at present. I’m beginning to miss fresh salads and coffee with some fresh cream would taste marvelous. We saw in the Stars and Stripes the other day that several ice cream “plants” had reached Tokyo; when they get them set up we should have ice cream a little more frequently. We have it about twice a week now – it’s good but one can taste the condensed milk! Our living quarters are comfortable. We have plenty of heat now and the water’s usually hot when we want to take a shower although we have to walk a long ways from our room on the fourth floor to the basement to take it. The gang in our room is a pretty congenial bunch. We have a couple of new roommates who moved in this past week – they’re a couple of Japanese-Americans. Both are very quiet although one of them snores pretty loudly! I’m the official “alarm clock” for the room – don’t know why but I wake up every morning almost exactly at six, I get up at 6:15 and go for shaving. After I finish shaving I wake the rest of the boys up. We leave the barracks building at 7:15 and get over to breakfast about 7:30. That gives us time for a pretty leisurely breakfast – we read the morning edition of Stars and Stripes and report for work at 8:00.


Very slowly the citizens of Tokyo are beginning to clean up the rubble of their city and are beginning to repair a few buildings and build a few new ones – I think I described to you some of the new building which is going on. Almost all the structures are flimsy wooden ones. Some of the larger department stores are trying hard to replace the insides of their gutted buildings and get back into business because they could make some money selling to soldiers. In spite of this activity though the surface has scarcely been scratched – I would guess it will be fifty years or more before the scars of the war disappear from this city. Someone said there was a fire somewhere in the city tonight – quite a large one too, but it probably didn’t impress the people here to any extent when they compare it with the ones they must have had during the war. I simply can’t imagine what it must have been like. I was talking to a boy the other night who knows some people who were here during the bombing and they say it was pretty awful – especially on May 25, 1945 – that was the date of the worst raid of all. When the bombers came over and dropped their incendiaries there happened to be a violent windstorm raging in the city and the combination was terrible – the fires raged completely out of control for 14 hours. Just to mention May 25 to a resident of Tokyo makes him shudder I guess!
[a]


Well Larry and Ed and I have all been here at the office typing letters tonight, but now it’s past time to go home and to bed. So I’ll say goodnight. Write often, won;t you and tell me all about things with you and things on the farm. How often I think of you there and wish that Marian and I could be there with you from time to time – hope the day when we can do just that isn’t too far off.
                                                        So long, now
                                                
                                                                Much love,
                                                        
                                                                        Dick 
Saturday, January 26, 1946        
Tokyo, Japan                        
                279th day




Dear Mother and Dad,


                        Saturday night is the loneliest night of the week! Yessir, seems that way tonight. There isn't even a movie to go to on this night for some reason. Will write this and then will probably go over to the “barracks”, take a shower if there happens to be some hot water and then read until time to go to sleep.


                        We thought that we were going to get some time off this weekend to take a little trip which we had planned. We were going up to a place called Nikko. But this morning at the very last minute we had to change our plans because some work came in which we had to get done. Oh, I guess we could have taken off but it wouldn’t have been playing quite fair with the Captain who has been a straightshooter himself so far so we stayed here at the office. We figure that if we continue to play ball with him, he’ll do the same and it will be a lot more pleasant! 


                        As a matter of fact this week the Army did come through! Just yesterday I typed up the letter which is to go to Washington requesting that we be promoted. Yessir, we’re all to be moved up from 7th graders to 5th graders. Our promotions vary just a little bit - I’m to be made a Corporal and Larry and Ed are going to be made T/5. We’ll all get exactly the same pay – it amounts to 79.20 a month – but I’ll actually “outrank” them just a little bit. I guess that it worked out that way because the “table of organization” of our outfit calls for it and I got the slightly higher grade because I’ve been in the Army a little longer than either of them. They both went in in July! I suppose it’ll take a month at least for the promotions to go through. But at any rate they’re started. 


                        Got your first letter addressed here to Tokyo on Thursday the 24th; it was postmarked the 16th so you see it came through in a hurry. Actually that’s about two days better than we can reasonably expect. Ten days will be about the average amount of time. There was a time early this week when the mail was pretty fouled up. All the planes were grounded and we heard consistent rumors that some air mail was being sent out from here by ship. So if some letter sometime is delayed that will explain it.


                        We have not yet received the mail which is being forwarded from APO 4260. We sent our address there just as soon as we arrived, but they probably haven’t gotten around to sending the mail on to us yet – it’ll be along one of these days.


                        One thing in your letter sorta surprised me. I suppose you told me about June Travis in a letter I haven’t yet received because you seem to assume that I knew something was wrong with her – was it another miscarriage? If so, that’s too darn bad!


                        I was very interested to hear that you have the attic all finished off – I’ll bet it really looks very nice. I’m sorry you had all that junk of ours to work around. You must have really had to play “checkers” with all those boxes! Would like to be able to think that I’ll be home in time to help you put the molding on. But I’m afraid it’ll not come to pass.


                        Suppose you’ve been following the demobilization news with great interest. I’m not very certain I have any ideas on what Congress is going to do about the question. It’s a difficult thing to decide. There is no question but what we need occupation armies in Asia and in Europe but it would seem that those armies should be made up if possible of men who have volunteered for the job. The boys who have been forced in by the Selective Service law are never going to be content! They are saying that they’ll have all men with two years of service as of July 1 out by that date. I feel that they’ll lower the months of service more and more. I think it’ll finally get down to 18 months but I have no notion of how soon it’ll be. I’ll have in 18 months by next October 23rd. Even if I make it by then, it’ll be too late to start teaching next fall and that’s the thing which is driving me slightly batty! I’m thinking more and more that the fellows with children may make it out a little sooner – that’s the thing Larry and Ed are praying for! But if they do that – it’ll hurt my chances I think! But, I suppose that’s the way it ought to be (but I can’t quite feel good about it). As usual, the only thing which can be said is that we’ll just have to wait and see![b]


                        Have done very little that was exciting this whole week long. Have gone on a couple of “window shopping” tours. Window shopping here involves mostly looking at what the street vendors have for sale, but that includes just about everything. I did make one purchase but you’ll have to keep quiet about it for a while yet. I bought Marian ten yards of quite nice white silk cloth (at least I hope it’s all silk) and I sent it to her the other day as a Valentine present. I sent it via first class mail so it ought to reach her around twenty days. I mailed the package last Monday January 21st! I’ve said nothing to her about it.


Was interested in the story of the Lemke’s. It’s a big change for them isn’t it? We’ll visit them sometime in California – how about it? It seems to me that they got a mighty handsome price for their home in Birmingham!


                        I suppose that the Spicers are excited about going to California. I thought of Frank when I was there but couldn’t remember whether he was around San Francisco or Los Angeles. 


                        You’re sure very prompt in paying your income tax. I have no notion how Marian and I stand in that income tax business. I think Marian knows about it though and will take care of it. Don’t think it will bother her very much because she can take me as an exemption! 


                        I’m anxious to receive the letters from APO 4260 because they’re the ones which tell about your Christmas. Wonder what Christmas next year will bring forth.


                        Well, the boys are about ready to leave for the “barracks” and I think I’ll go along with them. Want to buy some things at the P.X. before it closes.


                        Will probably add a note in the morning!


                                                                Goodnight Folks (in spite of the fact that you’re probably just getting up at 6:00 a.m. Saturday morning) It’s 8:00 p.m. here)


Love,


        Dick


Tuesday Feb 5, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad,
                All is confusion here this morning. This past week end we established our own office in a different building from the one we’ve been hanging out in. The O.C.E. office also moved to this new building and we got in on that work. The new office is O.K. except that there is no heat in the building! Right now my hands are so cold that I can hardly write. I think I told you that the Japanese had removed the steam pipes and radiators from almost all their buildings to use them as scrap metal. That was true of our building; an attempt is being made to get the equipment reinstalled but it will be spring before they accomplish it! We make a feeble attempt to heat the place with oil-burning tent stoves, but they don’t work worth a darn. They smoke constantly deposit soot all over the place and there’s a black greasy film everywhere.
                And then just last night we found out that we have to move this afternoon from the Finance Building where we’ve been living so comfortably into another building which is just being fixed up for occupancy and which is heated only with the blasted oil stoves again. So we’ll be living 24 hours a day in smoke and soot! As usual no explanation why we have to move has been given – they just say, “get” and we have to get! It’s a bad deal! The only good thing about the situation is that the building where we’ll be living is right across the street from the building our office is located. Of course this convenience is somewhat spoiled by the fact that we have to walk five blocks to eat our meals.
***
                Well, well just to show you how fast things sometimes move I’ll tell you now that it’s afternoon (the above was written this morning) and the moving which was scheduled to take place at one o’clock has been cancelled until further notice! And once again we don’t know why! How the Army ever won the war is sometimes (almost always) beyond my comprehension.[c] However, the cancellation of the moving is good news – at least we’ll be warm for a little while longer!I received your letter of January 20 on Fed 3. I think our moving around last week end delayed its arrival a couple of days perhaps.
                Was interested to hear about Charlie MacArthur. Could you send his exact address – a man who runs a PX is a good man to be in touch with.
                That’s good news about the salad dressing you got from Walt Ritter for the grapes Dad. Going to have a bumper crop this coming year? Glad you have your trimming well toward finished. Hasn’t it been “too cold to trim?”
                Life here has settled down pretty much to a routine here. There is surprisingly little to do with our spare time. We spend a good deal of it buying and selling. Selling a package worth while. I’ve sent Marians birthday present to Betty Felt I think the “girls” will be having a party for her and I’ll have Betty give Marian the present then – I fixed it all up with notes etc. I bought Marian a short type of kimono which I’m sure she’ll be able to use as an evening wrap. It’s a simple black one with a very pretty lining. I think the silk in it is very nice. I hope the thing reaches her safely. I sent it to Betty via first class mail. I had to write on the package that it was a gift values at less than $50 so that I would not have to pay customs duty on it. 
        Had quite an interesting experience last Sunday. I went with a Captain from the O.C.E. out to a warehouse which has been taken over from the Japs. The place had apparently been a warehouse for storing machinists supplies. I never saw so many grinding wheels and drills, and files, and gears, and hammers etc. etc. in my life. There must have been several tons – yes I said tons – of leather belting stored there – all of it brand new and in great rolls ranging in size from that like is on a sewing machine to belting 12 inches wide and ½ inch thick. In the warehouse there was also a great quantity of radio and telephone equipment. And also a lot of bales of paper of various kinds.
                All of this stuff was in a mess – it had been pulled down off the shelves, had been stepped on and broken. The cartons of stuff were broken in to most of it was just being wasted. It was a tragic sight believe me. To see all this waste in this country which is so poverty stricken but then I suppose a person can only say “The Japs asked for it now they’ve got it!” It seems though that our own Army could use a lot of the stuff – don’t know why they don’t. 
                We were allowed to carry away anything we wanted but most of the stuff I got will be of no use to me here, and it’s so silly to ship it home even if I could.[d]
                All of our officers (4 of them) are at the office now we don’t have much to do though. Can’t get a typewriter assigned to us. The two colonels are probably leaving for Washington this coming Sunday. Will be gone a month or so. Wish we could come with them!
                All for now – I’m looking forward to your weekly letter.
                                                                Love,
                                                                        Dick
Tokyo, Japan                
9 February 1946        
Dear Mother and Dad and John,


                Am going to make a carbon copy of this letter and send it on to you, John,and then Mother won’t have to bother sending their letter. I thought of your birthday the other day, John, but not in time to send a letter which would have reached you on the day.


                I received the letter you mailed January 28 yesterday, Mother. Golly, the letter you got from me in six days must have certainly made perfect connections. Did I tell you that the rumor has it here that only about one out of four of our letters are going by air mail. There is a shortage of planes and a shortage of men to fly them – at least that’s what they say. The men here are pretty sore about it – they wonder why if the Air Force can’t fly the mail, the government doesn’t hire some airline to do it. Mail, believe me, is pretty important to everyone out here. And it makes people mad to be getting poorer service now that the war’s over than they got before it ended/ Marian mails a letter to me every day and yet I haven’t received one from her since Monday and today’s Saturday. They’ll all come in a bunch probably one of these days – hope so anyway.
                [e]
                We still haven’t received the mail which you sent to APO 4260 at San Francisco (Hamilton Field). Suppose someone just hasn’t gotten around to forwarding it to us yet. So you see I’m still very much in the dark about what you did around Christmas time.


                Thanks, Mom, for sending the package the other day. I shall be looking for it. Don’t quite know what kind of service the fellows are getting on packages. I know that some of them just received some Christmas packages which had been mailed early In October. However part of that delay was explained by the fact that they went first to Manila and then were shipped up here. It’s really best to send packages via First Class mail if they don’t weigh too much.


                Well the weather man promised that we’d have some snow in February and he has been right. It has snowed twice here – about two inches or a little less each time. The snow hasn’t lasted long however. It has been very wet snow both times so things are pretty sloppy while it does last. It’s really something to see some of these people walking around in the snow with only their wooden “clogs” and with no stockings. Gives me goose-pimples to see them. Don’t ever let anyone tell you that the Japanese are not a hardy group of people. How they can stand to work in unheated buildings and stand to live in their paper and wood unheated houses is beyond me. Maybe it’s the fish and rice which keeps them warm. Boy, once I get away from this country I don’t think I’ll ever want to smell frying or cooking fish again so long as I live. A person can’t go in a single building over here – U.S. Army occupied buildings included – without being bowled over by the smell. Don’t quite know where it comes from – the people must cook their meager portion of fish over the little fires which they build right inside the rooms where they go to eat their lunch. Another thing which is funny to see – These people are the greatest ones in the world to build a fire right inside a building. The other day we looked across the street out of our office building into a room of the building opposite ours and the people had a fire going which was blazing up merrily. They may or may not open the window at the top a little bit to let the smoke out.
– .. –
                Our new office is turning out quite well,; the only bad thing about it so far is the lack of heat. We try to heat it with a very ineffective stove which burns fuel oil. But since the stove was designed to heat a tent and designed also to burn wood or coal it doesn’t work very well. We’re constantly having to fuss with it and every time a person touches it, he ends up covered from heat to foot with the dirtiest greasiest soot you can imagine.


                I think, Folks, that the last time I wrote we were threatened with the prospect of moving from the building where we live to another building which is far less satisfactory. Well, we never did move and probably will not move until sometime later at least. Some General called the move off – he said that the building into which they proposed to move us was not fit for occupancy. I don’t usually have good things to say about Generals, but I feel that I must applaud that one! Things are pretty crowded around Tokyo right at the moment. A big bunch of men attached to General Headquarters have just arrived from Manila. By, they’re all glad to be up here. Apparently Manila is just about the worst place imaginable! 


                The Colonel who is our boss here at the office has turned out to be one very swell gent. Never saw a Colonel quite like him. He’s a great kidder and he really goes to bat for the enlisted man every time. A Lt. Col. who is his assistant is also a nice guy. He’s much like the Colonel. The pair of them make some combination believe me. Both of them take a very free and easy attitude about Army red tape and the more of it they can cut the better they like it. They’re leaving tonight by plane (a plane which the Colonel managed to have assigned to himself personally) to Washington to attend a big conference there. Of course, they’ll also have some time at home and that an important part of the trip. They’re getting ready to take-off across that awful big ocean with out making much more preparation than a person would make to make a 500 mile trip in an automobile. There are two enlisted men in the crew of their plane. This trip is a complete surprise to them and believe me, they’re a happy pair!


                Was glad to have your letter. Suppose you have the grapes all trimmed by this time, Dad. What work you planning to do in the basement? Going to seal it in? That will be swell if you do, but I thought you might want to wait to do that until after you found out about the possibility of installing an oil furnace with a blower. That’s what you really need now! Certainly would like to be around the farm for a few days right after you get that quarter beef! Some of those pork chops would be mighty nice too.


                I ate lunch today and have been writing this while the other boys were at lunch. The officers want one of us around at all times to answer the telephone. I apologize for the way this letter looks. The typewriter I’ve been using is one we’ve borrowed until we can get one of our own and it’s sorta on its last legs. Think though, Lad, that this one would work quite well if I used that hunt and peck system if yours! If you’re working the night shift you’ll have a lot of time to address envelopes so write often.


                It’s a nice sunny day here today. Would like to take a few pictures this afternoon. The Colonel gave Ed and me an awful lot of film and I want to shoot some of it up. The first pictures I took and which Marian will be sending to you one day soon didn’t turn out at all well. They’ll be a little better though after they’re enlarged. I don’t think that the man to whom I took them for developing and printing did a very good job. Think I’ll try somewhere else next time!


                                                        That’s all for now, as I say, write often
                                                                        Love,


                                                                                Dick
Sunday, February 24, 1946        
Dear Mother and Dad,


                Sunday morning here – the day is a dull one and there’s a very cold wind blowing and one is encouraged to stay indoors. We had our weekly excursion this week on Friday. To our surprise, Washington’s Birthday was declared a holiday here. Ed, Larry and I succeeded in getting permission to take our office’s jeep on a little spin. Actually it was more than a little spin – we drove up to a small city in the mountains named Nikko. It was about a 200 miles round trip and that’s a long journey in a jeep on a cold day over the roughest roads you can imagine. Actually Nikko is a very interesting place, but we had a chance to see only a little of it because we had so little time to spend. Before the war the country around Nikko attracted many tourists. The mountains scenery is very attractive and there are several temples and shrines of one sort or another. We saw perhaps the best known of the temples. It was built about 300 years ago. The structures are very, very ornate and these particular ones are painted in an elaborate fashion – gold, red, yellow, blue, green. The temple is set amidst a gove of very large trees – larger trees than I’d ever expected to see here in Japan. Although the temple is old, the trees must have been a great many years older.


                Well, our mail is really messed up. It’s taking letters anywhere from 20 to 25 days to come from the states now. Apparently about all the mail is moving by ship rather than by air. Every day in the local edition of “Stars and Stripes” there are letters to the editor complaining about the service. It’s a little difficult to understand why now that the war is over the Army can’t provide as good service as they provided during the war.Of course, the Army says it’s because there are no flyers to fly the planes and no mechanics to maintain them. They say that the critically needed men have all been discharged. It seems to me that if this is the case, they ought to turn the air mail job over to some commercial company bet there are several which would jump at the chance if given the opportunity. Packages are even worse than letters. Just last week one of the boys here in another office received a package which had been sent to him via first class mail and it had been mailed on December 5! I’m really expecting to receive the package you sent in about two months! Let’s see you sent it just about a month ago now didn’t you?[f]


                We had some excitement at our barracks yesterday morning. Just as we were getting up a fire broke out in one of the rooms of the dispensary on the first floor. It was quite a fire too although at the time is was burning not many of the fellows paid any attention to it. It burned out the whole interior of the room and the smoke messed up the adjacent rooms. They had to use a full sized fire hose to put it out. From what we hear it started when one of the oil heating stoves began to act up. A person had to really be careful with those stoves – we never have our on except when one of us is around to watch it.


                This past week I received a letter from President Brown wanting to know what my feelings were with regard to my return to Denison this fall and whether or not I thought I had any chance of getting out in time to go to work in September. Well. my answer to his questions were all in a letter which I wrote to Dean Richards on Feb. 8 and which he should have received by now. In the letter to the Dean I said that I wanted to be back to teaching in the fall in the worst way and I sent to the Dean the “dope” on what the college has to do to strengthen any application for discharge which I may submit. They have to provide me with a letter which says that there is a job for me, which tells something of the importance of the teaching I was formerly doing, and which says that it’s difficult to find a suitable replacement for me. I’m quite certain that the President and the Dean will provide me with as strong a letter as possible. I have no notion whether an application for discharge will meet with any success or not – I guess the only way to find out is to submit an application and see what happens. I’m thinking that I’ll put in the application sometime in April. At that time I’ll have about a year of service. Probably won;t receive the supporting letter from Denison much before that anyway.[g]


                Even if the application which I submit is turned down, I still think I have a bare chance of being out by September. I think a great deal depends upon what Congress decides to do with the Selective Service measure. If they vote to continue it, thus assuring the Army of a source of new men, the Army is going to be a little more willing to let some of us already in out. A thing which may hurt me, however, is the fact that there seems to be a strong movement afoot to discharge fathers. If they do that, it might make it a little harder for non-fathers. 


                This week the men with 44 and 43 points are going to the replacement depots in preparation for being sent home. Very soon the men with 24 months of service as of June 30 this year will be going (they’ve already been asked to sign rosters). Those men with 24 months service as of June 30 have 20 months at present. It looks very much as though the Army is beginning to definitely lower the amount of service necessary. If they keep it up they might get down to my class by September when I’ll have 17 months in. [h]


                Marian forwarded to me the clipping showing Phil Cloney and Jack Dempsey. Phil really gets around doesn’t he? Was his operation a success? Or don’t they know yet?


                Marian writes and tells me that she’s taking organ lessons. Isn’t that swell? I’ve always wanted her to do it and now she has a splendid opportunity. She’ll like it a lot I know!


                I’m afraid all the plans I made for Marian’s birthday have gone to pot because I’m almost certain that the package I sent first class from here will not have reached Betty Felt by the time I thought it would. The party at which I thought Betty could give Marian the package is scheduled for Feb. 25. I sent the package on Feb. 2 but that wasn’t soon enough – would have been if the mails hadn’t begun to act up so! I sent a cable to Betty yesterday telling her to proceed as she wished when the package did arrive. She’ll probably arrange a little party of some sort for Marian and give her the package then. 


                All the mail you sent to that APO 4260 has never been sent on. I have sent two cards trying to trace it but no luck as yet. Because I’ve never received that mail, I’m entirely in the dark about your Christmas celebration. - Am going to ask you to tell me about it again,if I don’t hear from the 4260 stuff soon. There’s simply no excuse, except stupid Army procedures, for a lot of the mess things are always in![i]


                There’s a lot of excitement around here these days concerning the new currency which will go into use as of March 2. The Japs are trying to get rid of their old currency and are on a wild buying spree and prices have gone sky high. The GI’s are trying to decide how much old currency they can turn in without making it too obvious that they’ve been playing the black market! It’s all very, very interesting.[j]


                Guess that’s about all for this time. Am anxious to hear from you – your letter written January 27 is the last one I’ve received!


                                                Love,


                                                                Dick
[Handwritten] Sending a carbon copy of this to John!
Sunday, March 3, 1946


Dear Mother and Dad and John,


        By the time you receive this you will probably be fully aware of how messed up the mail service is from here and to here these days. Yesterday I received your letter, Mother, which you wrote on Sunday and Monday, Feb 3 and 4th. A week ago yesterday I received the letter which you wrote on February 10! How’s that for system? I receive the letter which you wrote a week later a week earlier – two weeks for one to come, four weeks for the other. I guess I’ve already written that there’s practically no air mail service across the ocean now. Our mail goes by ship and apparently by the slowest ships which can be found! This past week a fast ship arrived here from San Francisco; it came over only partly loaded and had one sack of mail aboard. Everyone was disappointed because they expected it would be loaded with mail. The postal authorities announced, however, that a large quantity of mail (20 tons) was aboard a ship which had left San Francisco on Feb. 25 and which was not due in here until March 15. A “ten day” ship comes over empty and the mail is loaded onto a “20 day” ship – that’s how to keep the soldiers happy!


        While I’m on the subject of mail, I’ll say once again that I still haven’t received that mail which you sent to APO 4260 while we were waiting for the plane at Hamilton Field. Am beginning to despair of ever receiving it. [k]


        Boy, it really is a miserable day here today. About an inch and a half of snow fell last night. Now it is raining and the wind is blowing quite hard; the snow is rapidly turning to very messy slush! March is coming in just about the way February did. Actually though we can’t complain about the weather we’ve had since we’ve been here. I understand that old residents are saying that this winter has been one of the mildest on record. We have had lots and lots of bright sunny days. In fact I don’t know if I’ve ever experienced a January and a February which were as sunny – certainly not in central Ohio or New York City!


        The amount of work we have to do around the office continues to be very small. And I suspect it’ll stay that way until our Colonel arrives back from Washington. That’ll not be until the 20th of this month or so. Ed Ekland is having to work a little harder because the Colonel agreed before he left that one of us could go down to the Office of the Chief Engineer and do a job which needed doing. The three of us flipped a coin to determine who would go and Ed lost the flip. We’re a little disgusted with the situation because Ed is having to work very hard for OCE and at the same time there are several men in that office who belong there who are doing practically nothing. What it amounts to is that Ed has the ability and the education to do the job and the other lads haven’t so Ed is stuck with it. That’s why Col. Duke (the boss down at OCE) wanted one of us in the first place. We’re wondering what the situation is going to be when our Colonel gets back. We think that Col. Duke is going to try somehow to keep Ed on this job, but we also think that Col. Northrup (our boss) will put up a fight.


        Perhaps you’ve seen in the papers that a crisis has arisen here in Japan over the inflation situation. To try to combat inflation, MacArthur and his advisers decided that the thing to do was to issue new currency. The Japanese people will have to turn in all their old currency to the banks but they’ll not be allowed to have an equal amount of new currency back. They’ll be given 300 yen for the head of a family and 100 yen for each member of that family per month. It is hoped that by thus reducing the amount of yen the people have available that the prices of commodities will drop because if they don’t drop in price no on will have enough money to buy. As usual, of course, there are a lot of loop holes. To a large extent the people will turn to barter; they’ll just trade whatever they have to trade for what even they need. The soldiers here are all wondering how it’s going to affect them. Cigarettes will probably no longer bring 300 yen per carton ($20) but on the other hand cigarettes will probably have great “barter” value. And, of course, any money which the troops have will, or should, buy a lot more than it has bought. Just yesterday, for example, I saw quite a good camera for sale. I asked the man how much he wanted for it and he said 3000 yean ($200); then I asked him how much he wanted if I agreed to pay in “new” yen and he said, “In “new” yen, 2000!” In other words, this indicates that prices will be down by ⅓; actually, however, I think they’ll be down much more than that.[l]


        When we turned our “old” yen in we were issued “new” yen in the form of bills which were printed by the U.S. Government for the invasion of Okinawa. MacArthur has decreed that this “invasion” money is legal tender. This had to be done because the Japanese Government was not able to print sufficient “new” yen in time for their own use and some of the “old” yen are going to be made “new” by attaching a stamp to the old bill. This morning’s “Stars and Stripes” warns that the glue on these stamps is inferior and troops must be careful that the stamp is not lost off the bill. It sounds as though we’re really going to have some fun.[m]


        Well, today is Marian’s birthday. I think I told you last week that I was afraid that the gift I sent her would not arrive on time – it would have if the mail situation hadn’t sudden gotten all fouled up. But I’m not too concerned about it as long as it arrives sometime. Speaking of packages, Mother, I’ll put a request on this letter, but actually there is little I need. If that pillow and the sheets ever arrive I’ll be quite happy. However, if you do send a package, tuck in a few small cans of condensed milk. We have gotten acquainted with a man who runs a jewelry store how has a small baby and I think he’d give us almost anything in his shop for some milk for that child! Over here the mother of a child nurses it for as long as three years (isn’t that something?) but something is wrong with the mother’s milk production in this case and I guess the baby has a hard time getting along. I know that these are the people who started the war and they’re responsible for killing a lot of American boys, but just the same it’s hard not to try to do something to help a little baby which wasn’t even born when the Pearl Harbor attack occurred[n]!


        I have had no further word from Denison. It’s too early yet to expect an answer to my letter asking them to furnish me with a letter to suppose my application for discharge, I’m told that the fellows who are still in the states and who have been in the Army for 18 months are getting out – do you know whether that’s true or not? Hope it is true because that means that sooner or later the 18 months rule will apply over here. If I could beat 18 months by just a little bit I might be able to make it back to Denison by the time school starts in September. You see I’ll have 18 months in on October 23rd![o]


        We’ve had no word from Washington concerning our promotion; we’re expecting to hear any day now. We’re hoping that the orders will be so written that we’ll receive the higher pay for this month (March). The raise amounts to $19.20 extra per month. As a private overseas and subtracting my “ducks” I draw $23.40; as a corporal I’ll draw $42.60. Of course, one of my “ducks” is a $7.50 War Bond. Incidentally if those bonds haven’t been arriving, don’t worry about it. My records are probably all messed up and they haven’t been taking one out – maybe they have. Maybe some day I’ll find out! But don’t worry!


        Don’t think I’ll start another page. Keep writing every week.


[hand written] Mother, will you send the package I’ve asked for                        Love to all,
                                                                Dick                                Dick
Sunday, March 10, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John,


        Sunday again and, by golly, if it isn’t a bad day. It’s the funniest thing – I don’t believe that we’ve had more than two Sundays with nice weather since we’ve been here in Tokyo. The weather will be nice all week and then will turn bad on Sunday. It’s cold today and from time to time a few snow flakes of snow fall out of the cloudy sky, one of those damp, gloomy winter days.


        The past week has been quite uneventful. We did about as little work as usual at the office, went to two or three movies, and that’s about all. There was a little excitement last night. As George Burridge and I were coming from the movies we had to go past the Dai Ichi Building (the main Army headquarters bldg) and darned if the place wasn’t on fire! The fire engines were out and they had hose strung to the upper floors of the structure. We couldn’t see exactly where the fire located and we couldn’t find out from anyone what the story was. But apparently it wasn’t very serious because this morning we looked around a bit on the 6th and 7th floors and could see no sign of the fire except a little water on the floors of the corridors. We concluded that the fire may have been on the roof of the building where the Army has installed a couple of Diesel powered electric generators which are housed in wooden shacks. Funny that this fire should have occurred because this morning’s Stars and Stripes reported that two other fires occurred yesterday and last night. One of them destroyed the barracks and garage of a Quartermaster Trucking Company and the other destroyed the installation of a nearby Infantry Company. It seems like there have been a lot of fires but it’s not difficult to understand when one considers how inefficient and dangerous oil-stoves are which are used to heat most of the Army installations!


        One rumor that’s disturbing us greatly is that they’re considering moving us again! We have just gotten nicely settled into our new quarters and they’ve gotten them fixed up quite nicely and now here we go again. It seems that the Government is bringing 400 civilian women over here from the states to work in the offices and they have to find living space for them. So they’re moving officers out of one of their billets, moving them into the building we are now living, and we’ll move out into another building which is just being fixed up, but which, of course, will probably not be entirely fixed up by the time we move. The officers who are being moved are mad and so are we. No one knows why the 400 women are being brought from the States – don’t know whether the big shots are more interested in what the women will be able to do during the day or more interested in what they’ll be able to do during the night! I suspect from witnessing some of the antics of officers that they’re most interested in those night-time activities! A lot of these officers are only gentlemen by Act of Congress believe me! It’s a funny thing, I suspect that most of the people at home think that it’s the common soldier who misbehaves and is unfaithful, etc. but actually I think the officers are more guilty than the men! They certainly make fools of themselves over the relatively few white women who are available here but they by no means restrict themselves to the white women – one of the officers billets about a block from our office is just crawling with Japanese girls almost every night and we often see them coming out of the building early in the morning when we go to breakfast![p]
        The mail situation continues to be bad but in yesterday’s paper there was an article which promises relief. This month they promise that a much greater porportion of the mail will go out by air than went by air last month. Right at the present time I have received no letter from you or from Marian which is not at least a month old. The last letter of your’s I have received, Mother, is the one you wrote Feb. 10 and the same thing is true with regard to Marian’s letters although I have not yet received her 5th, 6th, 7th of Feb. Two ships came in this week – I got three letters from Marian, the ones she wrote on the 1st,2nd,3rd of Feb., but that was all. I thought I might get the package you sent on January 26th but apparently it did not get to California in time to catch these ships which left on February 9. Oh, well, maybe it’ll be on the next ship! Boy, I tell you the fellows are really mad about the mails being tangled up and it doesn’t seem that there is any very good excuse for it!


        Was surprised to receive a cable from Marian this week – it came on Monday. I had sent her one on Friday, March 1 for her birthday and it apparently arrived on Saturday, March 2nd your time and she sent a cable right back to me. Bill Treby, the man who runs the telegraph office and drugstore in Granville, also sent me one of those “canned” message cables just for fun at the same time.


        Everyone over here is watching the Russian situation with a great deal of interest. We hear reports constantly from men who are just back from Korea that they’re having a dickens of a time with the Russians over there. I can’t understand it – there certainly is no reason under the sun why Russia should want to get into a war with the U.S. Russia is quite exhausted from the war she has just been fighting and I don’t see how she could feel that she has a chance of gaining anything by provoking the U.S. I’m very happy that Byrnes spoke plainly to Russia about the Iranian and Manchurian situations, and I’m quite confident that the Russians will do something about getting their troops out. I think they, the Russians, have been pushing and pushing just to see how far they were going to be able to push us before we began to push back. And now that we have pushed back, I think they’ll behave! Good, Lod, I certainly hope so. A war with Russia would be unbelieveable! I wonder why in the world when no one wants war there always seem to be wars in the making! It’s very discouraging![q]


        Just back from dinner now. Our meals haven’t been quite so good lately as they were when we first arrived here. Although I think that some of the change is probably in our minds – what I mean is that we’ve grown tired of the food to some extent. We’ve been having alot of chicken lately – so much chicken that the fellows are beginning to groan when they see it. I know that it doesn’t sound right to say that a person can get too much chicken, but it is true. We’ve had no roast beef in two or three weeks. Have lots of meat loaf, stew, hamburger, some ham, porkchops once in a while. Canned peaches is our most frequent dessert and when it’s not peaches it’s pears or fruit for salad. We used to have icecream twice a week but lately we’ve had it on the average less than once a week. We expect that sometime this week the mass hall in our billet will open up. It was supposed to have been ready last Monday, but as usual the plan went wrong. I suspect that when it does get open our food will be better because they won’t have to cook for so many. 


        Well, one week of the new yen era is past and we seem to have survived the monetary crisis quite well. Each time we get a Japanese bill now we have to take a bottle of muscilage and stick the little stamp onto it more securely so that it will not be lost off – the glue the Japanese used is absolutely no good. The little stamp makes an old bill into a new one.


        Guess that’s about all for this time. I’m anxious always to hear from you.


        So long, Folks


[handwritten]                                                                        Love,
No news of our promotion!
No mail from APO 4260                                                                Dick
No news concerning the discharge situation!
Saturday, March 16, 1946
Tokyo, Japan                
Dear Mother and Dad and John,


                Writing a little early this week chiefly because there’s nothing else do do around the office this morning. In fact, right at the moment I’m the only one who has arrived at work even though it’s 8:30 – one-half hour after our official start time.


                First of all, Mother, let me say that the package which you sent arrived last Monday and I certainly was pleased to have it and I thank you a lot for sending it. The pillow is certainly swell and the sheets are heaven after sleeping between the Army blankets. Thank you also for the soap and the candy although we can buy all of those two things which we need over here in the PX. As a matter of fact, the three of us have remarked that when we receive letters from home asking what we want sent, we’re hard put to answer. There’s very little we need which we can’t buy. However, if you see any good Army discharges for sale you might send one of them – I could certainly use it!


                Except for the package I’ve received on other mail now for ten days. Several ships were supposed to arrive the middle of this week. In this morning’s paper there was an item saying that the ship which does have over twenty tons of air mail aboard and which left San Francisco on February 25 has been delayed in arriving but is expected within 48 hours. In an announcement in Sunday’s paper General MacArthur announced that air mail service was to be restored at once, but so far there has been no sign that this has been done. However I do think that the worst is probably over now and we will get a little better service in the near future.[r] 


                I believe that this past week has been the dullest since we arrived here. We’ve had practically no work to do, there have been no entertainment events of any particular interest. Seems as though we’ve just sat around waiting for the time to pass. On Wednesday we had to have three more “shots” – one for typhoid, one for typhus, and one for cholera. For the first time since I’ve been these shots I was upset by them – had a dickens of a headache and little fever all day Thursday and had about the sorest pair of arms you can imagine. Hope we’re finished with the “shots” now for a while. You might be interested to know that since I’ve been in the Army I’ve had 16 “shots” of one kind and another and two small pox vaccinations. It would seem that I’d be immune to most everything. I suspect that we received the typhus shot this week because there are a good many cases of that disease here in Tokyo. The Army is out spraying people with DDT to kill the lice which carry the disease, but they haven’t been able to get it entirely under control. I guess that one of the difficulties is that some of the Japanese who are coming back from Korea and other places on the Asiatic mainland are sneaking past authorities and miss out on the DDT treatment. I haven’t heard that there are any cases of typhus amongst the troops here. I suspect however that you read about the ship from here being quarantined at Seattle because she had a suspected typhus case aboard.


                This week for the first time the mess hall in the building where we live was opened for service. It’s really very convenient for us now – we don’t have to walk five blocks to meals as we formerly had to and we just have to come across a narrow street from the place where we live to the place where we work. We’re really very well fixed now and we’re wondering how long it’s going to be before the Army decides to move us – that usually happens just about the time things get settled down.


                Yesterday a rumor reached us that the Red Cross was distributing sleeveless sweaters to the troops so we rushed right over and it was the truth. We each got a very nice sweater and they fit quite well too. So, Mother, you can tell any of your friends who have knitted those sweaters that they finally reach their destination. The one which I was given was knitted by someone in the San Diego, California chapter of the Red Cross. The Red Cross is certainly a fine organization, is very worthy of wholehearted support. They’ve just opened another club here in Tokyo. The one large one they had was always slightly over-crowded.
        
                I suppose that our Colonels will be back sometime this coming week. Imagine we’ll be a little more busy after their return, but I can’t see how we’ll have an overwhelming amount of work to do. It will be good to have Colonel Northrup back – he’s really a swell guy, full of wisecracks as anyone I’ve ever known and he likes nothing better than ti cut Army red-tape which, of course, endears him to us!


                I hope that this coming week I’ll have some news from Granville from Denison concerning what they will do about the application for discharge which I plan to submit. I am assuming that they’ll supply me with the necessary letter. Will be very surprised and very disappointed if they don’t! I still haven’t any strong feeling one way or the other concerning the chances of success when I do submit the application. I really think that this fool Russian situation is going to slow down demobilization to some extent although I feel also that it will assure the continuation of Selective Service. This week I sent a cable and also wrote a letter to Prof. Kerr of Columbia asking him for a letter to support my application. Thought that it might help to have a letter stating that I intend to pursue research leading to my PhD degree.[s]


                It’s Saturday afternoon now. I have just this minute received a cable from Marian saying that Denison sent the letter supporting the discharge application on March 14. So that’s that much, at least. Now I’ll wait to see what Prof. Kerr does and when both letters arrive I’ll get the application under way and cross my fingers!


                I guess I haven’t said in this letter that I still haven’t received the mail forward from APO 4260. However, this past week both Ed and Larry received their’s – why my mail didn’t come at the same time only God and the Army Postal System knows! However, the fact that they did receive their’s gives me hope that mine will come sometime. The last letter of your’s which I’ve received, Mother, is your’s of the 10th of Feb.


                It’s time now to close up shop here for another week. Actually our quitting time is a very unimportant thing because we spend most of our waking hours around the office here. About all we ever do at our rooms is sleep.


                So long now, Folks, until next time. Hope by next week-end I’ll have a couple of letters of yours to answer.


                                                                                        Love,
                                                                                                Dick
[Handwritten]
Sunday morning!
Darned if it isn’t snowing again today
Three Sundays in a row!
Tokyo, Japan                
March 24, 1946        
Dear Mother and Dad and John,


                Week before last I received not a single letter; this past week I received 32 letters from Marian, 4 from you, Mother, 2 from Dean Richards at Denison, 1 from Prof. Wright, 1 from Sherm and Virginia Neuschel. I also received a package from Marian and a cable. Wasn’t that a week? I was kept busy all week long reading mail and trying to answer some of it.


                One of the reasons there was so much mail was that at long last the mail which you sent to APO 4260 (Hamilton Field) caught up to me. I had just about given up hope that it would ever arrive, and I was certainly glad to see it. And so – I heard all about your Christmas. It sounded pretty nice. Sounded as though you had a lot of fun digging cars out of the snow and putting on chains, etc. etc. Too bad the weather had to act up quite so much. Marian tells me though that she had no particular difficulty making her various journeys. I’m pretty proud of the way she can get around by herself. I’m certainly hoping that I’ll be around with you all next Christmas – this being away from your family at that particular season is, as they say, “for the birds”!


                Before I forget it, Dad, let me say congratulations on that nice big legacy from Aunt Anna. Do you feel compensated at long last for that time Uncle Frank refused to let you have the groceries on credit? You want to be careful now that some sharper doesn’t sell you a lot of stock in a dry oil well – you know how those birds go out and prey on “the newly rich”! Also, referring to a later letter, congratulations on that pay raise at the shop. I’d say that was a pretty swell job you have! A swell job even considering all the “ducks” which they take out of that pay.


                Speaking of pay raises – you remember a long time ago I mentioned that our officers had put us in for promotions. Well, the letter went to Washington on Feb 1; it finally found its way back here,all approved, this past week. But they had failed to”cut” orders on the promotions and when we investigated how to have that done, we discovered that it would have to go all through “channels” here and will probably take the better part of a month. We also discovered that the whole thing would never have had to have gone to Washington in the first place! This is the kind of thing which keeps the morale of a soldier so high! The whole mis-handled deal probably cost each of us a hundred dollars or so, but the Captain just sort of laughed and said, “well, that’s Army red tape, you know!” And so – perhaps along about the middle of April, we may be promoted all the way up to Corporals! That job pays $79.20 a month when one is overseas – of course there are several bad “ducks” out of that – $22 for my share of Marian’s allotment, $7.10 for insurance, $7.50 for Bond. By the way have any of those Bonds been arriving? Or is that business all screwed up too? Suppose it is! Of course, actually we don’t need any money over here. I can take six cartons of cigarettes out and sell them for more money than I’d make as a Corporal even if nothing was deducted from my pay (six cartons of cigarettes are with $80!) The catch it, of course, that I can’t because that means that I have a carton of cigarettes to sell every week! The only time we can send money home is when we get paid. We’re hoping to be paid at the end of this month (first time in four months) and I’m going to try to send all of the money home! 


[handwritten] The work you’ve done on the attic certainly sounds swell. Bet it looks nice!


                What do you think of the deal Marian made on selling old “Georgie” Think that it was the thing to do myself – I doubt it she would have been able to get ceiling price for the car very much longer. I think that as new cars become a little more available that the used car market will go to pieces. She really didn’t have a lot of use an auto anyway and it was a good bit of trouble for her to take care of a car as old as George was. Marian writes very enthusiastically about the new Plymouths. As a matter of fact I think she has just about decided to go to Newark and sign us up for a new one. It might be that just about the time I get out of the Army we’ll be able to get it – and certainly a car is one of the first things we’ll have to have!


                This week I received the letter from Dean Richards which he wrote to back up the application for discharge which I plan to submit. I think Marian said that she sent you a copy of the Dean’s letter. I think it’s a darn good letter, but I don’t for the life of me know how much good it will do. I haven’t submitted the application yet. I’ve just about decided that I’ll submit it first to Colonel Northrup. He still hasn’t come back from Washington – expect him this week though. However, I’m still waiting for another letter from Professor Kerr. When that letter arrives and when the Colonel gets back – I’ll do the deed! If the Colonel agrees to approve the application and makes a “first indorsement” of it, it’ll have to go to Washington to be acted upon by “higher echelons”. I think I have a better chance of getting the thing through if it goes to Washington than if it’s acted upon here. Inasmuch as we’re actually assigned in Washington and not in this theatre, I have an excuse to send the application to Washington. If the Colonel acts favorably upon it and sends it to Washington, I suspect it’ll be a couple of months before I hear anything one way or the other. So it’s going to involve a long “sweating out” period![t]


                We had some good weather yesterday (Sunday) for a change but I didn’t take advantage of it. Spent all the day here at my desk trying to make some first-drafts of the letters which I must write to the Colonel when I submit my discharge application. Got them pretty well in shape I think. Now if the letter from Kerr arrives and the Colonel gets back, I can make my move!


                Larry went on a little field trip this week with a couple of the fellows from down in Natural Resources Section. They visited a mine about a hundred miles north of Tokyo. It was a lead-zinc mine – Larry has a lot of experience around mines of that type so it was very interesting as far as he was concerned. I have to laugh, Larry probably knew much more about the whole situation than the two men he was with and yet Larry sits here in this office and does nothing! That’s the Army.[u]


                Well, Folks, I can imagine that every now and then there’s a bit of spring in the air. Would certainly like to be around the farm now. Suppose, Dad, you’re setting some posts and you, Mother, are getting some of the tying done – don’t work too hard at it now. Was just thinking the other day about that strawberry patch – is this the year? Wow! I’d certainly like to be there. If this discharge application fizzles out, I figure it’ll be about November – oh, well, that’s something. I’ve at least gotten more than half my time in!


        So long now, Folks!


[Handwritten]                                                                        Love,
Received Charlie MacAllister’s address – think I know where he is!                        Dick
Tokyo, Japan                
Tuesday, April 2, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John,


                I am late at starting the weekly letter this week. Our Colonels arrived back from Washington on March 26th; they immediately began to make plans to go to Manila, (they plan to leave tomorrow) and consequently, for a change, we’ve had a lot of work to do. The Colonels are taking the two Captains with them to Manila so after they have left we’ll be here all alone. There’ll only be two of us because the Colonels decided that they could take one of us along with them; they left it up to us to decide who should go. We flipped a coin and Ed was the winner! Larry and I were disappointed of course, but on the other hand, Ed was probably the most entitled to the trip because all the time the Colonels were in Washington, he had a “bad deal” writing reports for the Office of the Chief Engineer (Colonel Northrup loaned one of us to that office before he left for Washington – that time when we flipped the coin, Ed lost). This present trip will be quite an interesting one – on the way to Manila they plan to stop off for two or three days at Okinawa, and on the return trip they plan to stop at Guam. Ed is pretty excited about the whole thing.


                I’m pretty excited about some events of last week too. I typed out my application for discharge and handed it to the Colonel and he quite readily agreed to sign the “first indorsement” of it and forward it to Washington for further action. I think there is some reason to be optimistic about the matter. The thing which pleases me is that the final action will be taken in Washington rather than in this theatre of operations. I think Washington will give it more sympathetic treatment inasmuch as they are a little more aware of the situation which exists with regard to the shortage of qualified college instructors. As part of the “first indorsement” the Colonel urged that action on the discharge application be expedited to bring about my discharge by August. So, Folks, I’ve got my fingers crossed – think I may make it in time to eat some of those peaches before starting the year at Denison September 5! You cross your fingers too![v]


                Another thing – did you notice on the envelope that I’m a Corporal now! Yep, the orders raising us to that illustrious rank came through dated March 29! Now we’re hoping that they’ll turn right around and put us in for a Sergeant’s rating. Theoretically we only have to remain Corporals for one month; in other words, by the 29th this month, we’re eligible to receive another raise in rank and we’re hoping that about on the 30th the orders to that effect will be posted! Our overseas pay as Corporals is $79.20. My “ducks” amount to 36.60 so I’ll draw 42.60; we’re allowed to send that money home if we wish, and I’ll certainly be doing it. Marian certainly has written that she signed us up for a new Plymouth and that forty dollars will buy a tail-light or two! Incidentally, let me explain about the bonds, Mother. Apparently bonds are only taken out when we get paid; I was last paid for November but they told me they would take no bond out for that month (and they didn’t). We’re supposed to get paid today for the months of Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Now as I understand it, one of these days you should receive bonds for those months. I really think those bonds are more of a nuisance than they are good!


                I received several letters from you folks last week – three I think it was. The most recent one was your’s of March 19. That was the one you wrote, Mother, to tell about your Christmas. Well, as I’ve already written I finally did receive that APO 4260 mail, but it was nice to hear about Christmas all over again. I was certainly glad to have all the other news of home. Wish I’d have been around to help you cut that door in the little barn, Dad, that would have been fun. What are you going to do extend the cinders of the drive down that far now? Too bad you’re going to have trouble getting your tractor because all the veterans have first priority – I think they’re carrying this veteran business a little too far. After all, other people have to get along too!


                Sounds as though Jack and June have been having their trouble with illness of various sorts. It’s really too darn bad about June – I suspect that all the trouble she has had hadn;t done much to help here disposition. Which house was it that Uncle Ralph and Aunt Ila sold – the one on Lane Blvd or the flat. I suspect it must have been the Lane Blvd one!


                Was glad to hear that Ferd got out of his basement in time to get at his trimming before it was entirely too late. I had to smile about the fact that his brother was back on the same job – I’ve sorta forgotten what that argument was about that time, but wasn’t Ferd arguing that his brother wouldn’t want such a bad job as that one back after he had the experience of being in the Army. I’m sorry you don’t see the Potters a little more frequently – they’d be some company for you, but on the other hand, I can understand how it’s difficult to get along with them.


I remember, Mother, the spring on your washing machine which broke. Am glad you had Marian’s machine to finish up with. What you should do is go right over to Paw Paw and put your name in with Paul Warner or somebody for a new washer – one of those nice square tub, cast aluminum Maytags!


                It sounds as though spring has really come around your corner of the world. We’ve been having some very fine weather here to. Haven’t been out in the country for the last two or three weeks so I don’t know what things are like out there – the fruit trees should be in blossom I’d think. Am anxious to get a glimpse of the far-famed cherry blossoms.
                
                That’s about the story for this time – will try to drop you a note a little more frequently. We shouldn’t have much to do while the officers are gone – guess I didn’t say that they probably be away for about two weeks!


                So long, Folks,                                                Love,
                                                                                                Dick
[Handwritten]
I’m very anxious to hear about your week-end in Granville. Received Marian’s letter written the 21st this morning. 
I’ll not expect any news on the discharge application for a month and a half or so after it leaves here. Have to wait for the papers from Prof. Kerr before sending it from here. Hope it can go in about April 15 – 
Tuesday, April 9, 1946
Tokyo, Japan                
Dear Mother and Dad and John,


                Just a little late again this week at getting to the weekly letter. Yesterday, just exactly a week after you mailed it, I received your letters, Mother and Dad, which you wrote March 31 and April 1. That’s pretty good service – some change from the kind of service we were getting in late Feb. and early Mar.! I think your letters come through a little more quickly on the average than Marian’s do – I suspect it’s because your get to Chicago a little more quickly and hence get a head start on their way to the West Coast.


                We had two days off this past week-end on account of the fact that Saturday, Army Day, was declared a holiday. On Friday we planned a trip down toward Mt. Fuji; we were going to drive down on Saturday, stay over-night Saturday night and come back on Sunday. But when we awoke Saturday morning it was raining! I never saw the like of it – it certainly seems to rain every time we have a day off. Well, as long as it was raining there was no need to go down to try to get a good look at Mt. Fuji so we called off the trip. Saturday afternoon we went out to a part of the city here where there happens to be a whole lot of bookstores and spent quite a bit of time looking around them – it’s surprising how many English books they have for sale – some very interesting things too![w]


                Sunday morning I spent writing a letter to Dean Richards at Denison regarding action with which it appears the U.S. Office of Education may be able to take concerning my discharge application once that application reaches Washington. The Office of Education has been appointed by the Army and Navy as a certifying agency – the Education Office certifies certain people to the branches of the Armed Forces for discharges and I think it will be quite possible for them to certify me. Hope so anyway. Sunday afternoon we took quite a long ride out into the country – Yes, the weather was good on Sunday – it was interesting to see what was going on in the agricultural regions now that spring has come. We saw lots and lots of cherry blossoms and many other trees and flowering shrubs were in full bloom. The section through which we travelled on Sunday was not a rice raising area – wheat and barley were the main crops. Over here the grain is planted in rows about twelve inches apart and the farmers actually cultivate the crops as they grow; they hoe the wheat and barley just as an American farmer would cultivate his corn! The farmers were also very busy fertilizing their fields with the very potent “night soil” (human manure) and some of the odors carried by the breezes were “out of this world”![x]


                All of our officers – the Colonels and the Captains and Ed Eakland took off last Wednesday for Manila. They were going first to Okinawa – although we haven’t definitely heard,we suspect that they had to stay over on Okinawa longer than they had planned to because the typhoon which struck the Philippines the same day they left here. They were lucky that they didn’t fly directly to Manila because if they had they would have arrived right in the midst of the storm! Larry and I without the officers have had event less than usual to do.


                When I stop to think how completely wasted this last year has been it gives me the heeby-jeebies! I sometimes wonder if I’ll ever be able to do any work again! Yessir, it was just a year ago this coming Thursday (April 12 last year) that Marian and I left the farm on our way to Washington. Remember? It was the day that Pres. Roosevelt died. We heard about his death for the first time when I went in to the station there in Lawton to pick up the telegram which had arrived for me from the Geological Survey. [y]


                Sounds as though your shop is really going to town, Dad. Must be a lot of difference between making those little valves for V8 engines and those giant ones you made during the war. Suppose your place is busy too, John, making those engines for Kaiser-Frazer. Are you in production yet?


                So you uncovered the strawberry bed – boy, oh boy, I certainly wish I were going to be there to have some of them this year. This is the first year they’ll bear isn’t it? Or do they have another year to go? I’m very glad you got the willow and the maple, etc. That willow ought to do very well there – would think that the conditions are just about ideal for it. Suspect that the maple will have a hard time of it because of the way the roots of that poplar are spread out everywhere. A silver maple is the same as a soft maple,isn’t it – they grow remarkably fast. I was glad to hear that your mild weather hadn’t been of long enough duration to bring the buds out so that your cold snap did them damage. What’s the dope on the price of grapes this year? Are they going to be as high as last year? With the shortage of beer there is going to be – wine ought to be in great demand!


                Hope that if you get any new neighbors in Joe’s house that they’ll be people who will cause you no trouble. Have you thought any more about trying to get that land away from Joe? Don’t suppose that it’s worth a thousand dollars but it’s certainly too bad that piece can’t be hooked to yours. Then you could have the State set the whole thing out to evergreens! Am I crazy? Could have a mighty nice apple orchard.couldn’t you,in that south portion of the place? Or is the land just too bad?


                By the way, Mother, I finally got paid last Tuesday and they had taken money out for War Bonds so one of these days you should receive a bond for me for Dec., Jan., Feb., and Mar., Whee, that’ll amount to all of thirty dollars! My pay netted me just over $90.00. I managed to get permission to buy a money order with all of it and I’m sending it to Marian – will buy the right front fender of that new Plymouth!


                Well, Professor Kerr’s letter supporting my application for discharge arrived and that letter plus the Dean’s letters are being photostated now. As soon as the photostats come back, the application can be put in an envelope and sent on its way to Washington. Then comes the time for keeping fingers crossed and the time for uttering those prayers! I’m hoping that the application which will be sent air mail will arrive in Washington around April 22-25 (will arrive there just a year to the day approximately after I was inducted) Don’t know quite why, but I’ve been feeling a little more optimistic regarding it’s chances for success these past few days. Hope I’m not just building myself up for an awful let down![z]


                It’s time now to go to get the mail and I’ll close and take these letters to the postoffice with me. Write often because I like to hear whats going on around the farm. Hope I can be there before the summer’s over!


[hand written] Did you say the Lawton Leader printed the Atams story? Send me the clipping!


                                                                Love,
                                                                        Dick
Wednesday, April 17, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John;


                I think that this has been the rainiest day we’ve ever experienced here in Tokyo. It certainly has been coming down fast and furiously all day long and it shows no sign of letting up even now.


                Am late at writing the weekly letter this week. Our officers all arrived back Monday noon and since then things have been popping pretty fast. I have grown so accus-to doing no work that when some come along I hardly know how to act and what I have to do takes a lot of time. From what Ed Eakland has to tell of the trip they had a very good time. They unfortunately had quite a bit of bad weather which kept them from seeing some things – particularly when they were flying over them, but nevertheless, the trip as a whole was a success. Ed says that Manila is just about the worst mess a person can imagine. The city, of course, was pretty well wrecked during the war and the Filipino people are doing very little to try to clean it up – they’re doing much less, Ed said, than the Japanese are doing here in Tokyo. Two things seems to be the matter – first the people are pretty lazy and are inclined to sit back and wait for someone else (the U.S. they hope, I suppose) to pay them handsomely to build back their own city and second no one seems to have any money with which to do anything, most of the people who had money lost it completely during the Japanese occupation of the Philippines. Apparently the U.S. soldiers in Manila are about as completely demoralized as any soldier anywhere. There is plenty of whiskey to be had and Ed says that he never saw so many drunk people in his life – they just get drunk and stay drunk for days on end. About four or five soldiers are killed every night either fighting among themselves or with the Philippines people. Captain Shute happened to be an eye-witness of a knife fight between a G.I. and a Filipino in which the Filipino was finally killed! Guess we can be really thankful that we’re not down there in Manila. It doesn’t sound good![aa]


Friday, April 19, 1946
Hello, again:
                Certainly am having a time getting this letter finished – had a hard time getting it started too.


                Things have continued to be busy. The Colonels are quite an active pair and they get things done with a bang. They continue to be about the finest bosses a person could possibly have – we certainly struck it lucky when we drew them!


                Right at the moment things are shaping up with regard to two more trips. The first will be to Shanghai and the second to Australia. Yesterday Colonel Berry asked me If Larry and I had decided who was going on what trip, I told him we hadn’t decided but that we would decide. So Larry and I “drew straws” – he drew the Shanghai trip and I drew the Australia one! Isn’t that big news! I know very little more about the trip – don’t know for certain when we’ll leave but it will probably be sometime between the 15th and 20th of May. Don’t know how long we’ll be gone, don’t know what places we’ll visit, don’t even know why we’re going. Of course, I’m going mostly for the trip – there really is no need to have me along – The Colonels take us on these trips only because they know we enjoy going! We’ll travel by air, of course. Don’t know if I’ve ever said but both Colonels are pilots – they have a B17 airplane assigned to them with its own crew of four – nice, eh?


                Of course, you are wondering as I am what happens if I should happen to have good news concerning my discharge before we leave. Well, under those circumstances, I might not be able to go, although it would depend on what lee-way was given the Colonel in sending me home. If it should happen in that it was up to them when to send me, they might give me my choice of coming home before the trip or taking the trip and then coming home – I think I’d be foolish if I didn’t stay over to take the trip – it’s a chance of a life time. If the news concerning my discharge should come through while we’re gone nothing will be done concerning it until we get back “home” to Tokyo.


                Guess that the above is by far the biggest news from here. I’ll keep you-informed on any developments concerning the trip.


                I finally got my application for discharge off to Washington on April 12. If it takes it ten days to go, it should arrive there about Monday, April 22. As I have written, I don’t expect to be hearing anything one way or another for three weeks or so after that. 


                Everyone over here was pretty disgusted with the way the House handled the Selective Service Bill the other day. Of course, they (the House) can’t please everyone and I suppose all the young fellows at home were pleased with what the House decided. But putting all personal feelings on one side and the other aside, it seems to me that the way they handled the bill was a mistake. The way I see it, the only reason the Army has had as much success with its recruiting drive as it has had is because there was the “axe” of the draft hanging over the heads of the young fellows. The House proposed to take away that axe; well, in my opinion, watch the recruiting rate decrease! In today’s paper here, we read that the Senate is not too pleased with the measure as the House passed it and there’s a good chance that the whole bill may be re-written – that’s more like it. Really, that House measure was one of the most stupid things I’ve heard of in a long time. This is no time in the World’s history for a bunch of important legislators to “play politics”![ab]


                Well after our rainy day on Wednesday, the weather cleared rapidly. Yesterday was terribly windy, but today is really fine. The leaves are pretty well out here on the trees within the Imperial Palace Grounds. We took a little trip into the country the other day and things are booming out there. The wheat is about ten inches or so high. The farmers are beginning to get their fields ready for planting rice; they’re preparing the seed beds now where they grow seedlings which are transplanted into the paddies along toward the beginning of the summer.


                Marian sent the letter which Mr. Spicer had sent to you about the piece he had seen in the Lawton paper. It was very nice of him to say the things he said about me! Think I asked you once to send the piece from the paper, would like to see it.
                What do you think about Marian’s getting the apartment – I think it’s swell. I’m trying to urge her to move all our stuff – or almost all of it – to Granville. I think in the long run it would be better than to move part of it now and then we’d just have to mess around moving the rest of it sometime. I even want her to move the piano if you are still interested in having her have it. However, the refrigerator stays exactly where it is – we’re not going to move that heavy thing; it’s yours!


                Now I must get this in the mail if it’s ever going to reach you. I promise that I’ll do better at writing this weekend! So long, Folks,
                                                                Love,


                                                                                Dick
Wednesday, April 24, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John: 


                Well my first year in the Army is past; was inducted just a year ago yesterday. Certainly would like to know just how much of the second year I’ll put in.


                Had a letter yesterday from Dean Richards which contained a carbon copy of a letter he wrote to a Dr. Hollis of the U.S. Office of Education urging that office to take action on the matter of my discharge application. If Dr. Hollis does go to work on the proposition I think that it will help a lot – the Army and the Navy here both agreed to pay attention to the recommendations of the Office of Education. Once again, all I can say is that we’ll have to wait and see!


                Received your nice long letter, Mother, of April 11 and 12 yesterday. I was awful sorry to hear that you had had some frosts which had done some damage to the fruit. Certainly hope that it will not be too severe. This year must have been like last year – a mild March followed by a cold April. I can remember how cold it was at Camp Atterbury just a year ago. Glad to hear that the grapes are perhaps not hurt. Did the frost hit the orchards nearer the lake as bad?


                Was certainly interested to hear all the news concerning the various stores you looked at. The one in Mattewan sounded very interesting, but I certainly understand how a store of that type would have a lot of merchandise which had accumulated for a long time and which would be almost useless. Certainly sounded as though it was a busy place if three people worked there steadily. Not surprised that the meat situation was bad in the Plainwell store – from what I can read over here the situation with regard to the black market on meat must be pretty bad. I can’t understand why something can’t be done to clean it up a bit. It’s funny but it seems that most of the news we have from the states is bad news – perhaps the Army wants it to be that way to encourage the men to re-enlist. They haven’t scared me though – I’m very willing to take a chance as a civilian!


                Well yesterday we signed up for a new job! Yep, the three of us signed up to teach a course in Physical Geology here at the Tokyo War College (the college occupies a building right next to our office building). Our Colonels happened to get to talking with the Major who directs the college one day and they mentioned the fact that they had three geologists working for them. The Major asked the Colonels if we would by any chance be interested in teaching a course in Geology because they had had many enquiries concerning such a course. The Colonels said that they didn’t know but that they’d ask us. Ask us they did and the proposition appealed to us especially since they agreed to allow us to share the responsibility and the agreed to give us great freedom of action. In other words, we will be allowed to leave on the trips with the Colonels which may be coming up. Also they assured us that our departure from this theatre in the event that we are ordered home for discharge would be in no way interfered with.[ac]


                I should perhaps explain a little something about the college. It was organized during these past couple months and opened on April 8. They have afternoon and evening classes for officers and men who want ot take courses at both the high school and college levels. Most of the instructors are civilians who have been hired to come over to take the jobs, but they have also taken on some military personnel on a voluntary basis as instructors. We’re a little peeved that they don’t feel that they can pay us a little something extra for doing the work, but they say that they have no funds available.However, it will be fun we think. It’ll enable me to get my hand back into the teaching game and will give Larry and Ed a little experience in teaching – they’ve had little or no experience to date! We have no notion how large a class we’ll have. Registration will be held during the first days in May; our first class session will be Monday night, May 13![ad]


                Have no new information concerning the Australia trip except that it is planned for the latter part of May – hope it’s not much later than that. The more I think about it the more I don’t want to miss out on it if at all possible. 


                Oh, before I forget – I shipped three quite large packages to you in Lawton day before yesterday. One of them contains a Japanese Military Surveyor’s Transit, another the tripod for the instrument and the third is a box of miscellaneous junk which I’ve picked up. You don’t even need to open the packages when they come; just stick the stuff away with the rest of our junk! The amount of postage on them will amaze you and I suspect the mail man will think I’m an awful dope, but remember those stamps were bought with very “cheap” yen. Actually there’s about two cartons of cigarettes worth of postage on the three packages!


                I should say that the transit is one I managed to get through a deal that Ed worked with the OCE when he was working down there while the Colonels were in the U.S. All three of us got one – they’re transits which were taken away from the Japanese Army. Don’t quite know what I’ll do with mine, but it can always be used by the Engineering Department of any college where I’m teaching. Suppose the instrument is actually worth a hundred and fifty dollars or so! Can always hock it!


                Well, think we’re due for another promotion soon. The request for the promotion is all typed up and will go in next Monday, the orders should come through shortly after the first of the month. I’m to become a buck Sergeant and Larry andEd are to be T/4’s (all are equivalent in pay). [Arrow from pay points to a message written in the margins that says “93.60 per month overseas but my ducks amount to 36.60] We’re not eligible for another promotion after this one for two months so I’m hoping we’ll never make it but will be discharged first. Although come to think of it we’ll be eligible the first of July and I hardly think I’ll be out by then. It would be kinda fun to make Staff Sergeant but I certainly don’t want to stay in any extra days to accomplish it!


                I’m waiting to hear from Marian how she reacts to my idea of moving almost all of our stuff to Granville instead of only part of it. Still think we should do it that way or we’ll be hauling stuff for months having to strap it to the car and pile it in and everything else and I’ve had too much of that to enjoy it!
                Guess that’s about the story for this time. Will keep you informed concerning any new developments!


[rectangular section of the letter underneath this last paragraph all the way over to the closer is cut out]                                                                 Love,
                                                                                Dick
Monday, April 29, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John:


                Your nice long letter written Easter Sunday and Monday was received today. Letters have been coming through rather consistently in a week and it’s certainly nice to have them. I was certainly pleased to hear all about the trees being in blossom and the rye being knee high. Sounds as though things are really beginning to perk under the influence of the April showers and sunshine!


                One thing – guard those peach blossoms with your very life because I grow more and more optimistic that about August I’m going to be around there to eat them three times a day – no, better make it four times! This morning in a letter from Marian I received copies of a letter which Dr. Hollis of the U.S. Office of Education wrote to Colonel Hinshaw, Personnel Officer of Military Intelligence Service; in this letter Dr. Hollis certified my eligibility for release! Of course this certification is by no means a mandate to the War Department to discharge me, but, on the other hand, it is a recommendation which carries a lot of weight – at least I would think it would. I’m certainly pleased with this news and, as I say, it causes me to be pretty optimistic. Holy smoke, I wish with this news I knew how soon there would be some news and I wish I had some idea how the news will come when it does come. The ideal thing would be for Washington to give Colonel Northrup the authority to order me home whenever he sees fit providing it’s before the first of August or some date around then. If this should happen, I think the Colonel would just about let me “write my own ticket”. My choice would be to take the Australian trip and right afterward leave for the U.S. But then, that would be just too good a deal!


                Have little or no news on the Australian trip. Am quite certain it will come off all right but it probably will not be until the latter part of May or the first of June. The Colonels are going to make a trip to Shanghai sometime this coming month and there’s also a rumor that they’ll be going to Hawaii to pick up a larger airplane to use on the Australian trip. General Loper of the OCE will be going to Australia and he apparently wants to enjoy the comforts of a C-54 (a plane like the one we flew across the Pacific).


                With the Officers all around we have been relatively busy here at the office, but by no means so busy that we’ve been at all strained! We spend a lot of time standing around “shooting the bull”; the Colonels are great guys for that occupation. They’re certainly a pair!


                Sounds as though you’re really going to have a big celebration at the Lodge Hall. Too bad you were having so much trouble getting meat to eat – sounds to me as though the meat situation is as badly snagged up as a lot of things in the Army are. I wonder how soon people are going to realize that the only way they’re going to get out of their difficulties is to get back to work and to produce some things. The simplest way to end the danger of inflation is to produce so much goods that people will not have to compete with one another to buy!


                It was nice that you went over to see Beulah and Bill. B. wrote to Marian and Marian sent the card on to me that you had been there; said that they enjoyed having you. I hope that they got over to pay you a visit. I guess BIll is really a pretty busy boy. It must be nice out at their place at this time of the year with spring coming on! Glad that the shrubbery which Ray Binns left with them survived all right. I’m certainly anxious to see all the new plantings you have made around the house. Hope the willow tree pulls through all right; isn’t a willow always a little slow at putting out leaves in the spring?


                We have no additional news on the Geology course which the three of us are to teach at the Tokyo Army  College. Sometime this week the publicity concerning the new session at the college is scheduled to “break” and I suspect our course will be among those mentioned. Think I told you that the first class meeting will be on May 13. Am looking forward to the beginning of the course – hope our promotions to sergeants is through by then – am pretty sure it will be![ae]


                Marian and I are having a great time writing back and forth concerning the apartment she has rented. From what she had to say in the letter which I received today, I think I’ve just about talked her into moving the great majority of our “stuff” from the farm. Hope it works out that way so that the junk can be out of your road! Marian says that the rooms of the apartment are quite small; but in spite of this, I think we should move the stuff. Then if it should happen that we move somewhere else at the end of next year, the stuff will all be in one place. Marian is talking in terms of wanting the piano if you are still willing that she should have it. She’ll get a lot of enjoyment out of it. She certainly seems to be enjoying the organ lessons she’s taking now; I’m very anxious for her to continue. Hope that she will feel that she has time to do it next year!


                We’ve spent quite a lot of time this last week doing some shopping – haven’t bought much but have done a tremendous amount of looking. I have some pearls for Marian for our anniversary on the 12th of June; The Ed Wright’s in Granville have the same anniversary date as ours and I’m thinking of writing to Franci Steckle to have her cook up a party for Marian and the Wrights. And I’d send a package to the Steckles with Marian’s gift inside and also some small gifts for the Wrights and Steckles! It’s sorta complicated, but I think it would be fun. I think Marian had fun when I sent her birthday gift to Betty Felt. I sorta hate to think of her opening the gift when she’s all alone – makes it all the harder for her!


                Have been sneaking this letter while at work today – have some other things to type right now so I guess I’d better get at them. May add a note later. So long, Folks,


                                                                Love,
                                                                        Dick
[Added at bottom of page in pen]
Monday Evening,
                Hi! Am trying out a new pen I bought at the PX tonight – didn’t need a pen but I drew out the privilege of buying one so I went ahead probably will sell it to someone!
                This afternoon the package which you got ready in Granville the week end you were down here arrived – everything was in good shape – thanks a lot. Have a good “outlet” for the mille And I was just about out of shaving cream of the kind I like – can’t but that kind here. Like the toothpaste too – this supply ought to run me until after I leave – hope so anyway!
                Nightly letter to Marian now – So long, Love
                                                                Dick!
Tokyo, Japan                
Saturday, May 4, 1946
Dear Mother,
                
                This is addressed to you, Mother, because it’s intended as a special Mother’s Day greeting. I certainly wish it were possible this year for me, for Marian and me, to extend this greeting in person, but unfortunately that cannot happen; we can only take heart that in all probability I shall be coming home before too awfully long a time has elapsed. One of the things I’m most looking forward to when I once am out of the Army is to be able to visit with you folks a little more frequently and for longer periods of time than has been the case during the past few years.


                I know that I too infrequently have told you, Mother and Dad, how much it has always meant to me and to Marian and me to have had your encouragement and never-failing support during all the years. I simply can’t tell you how much easier it has made things and how much more pleasant. The more people I get acquainted with, the more I see what their parents have done for them, the more I realize how marvelous you two have been, and I shall never be able to adequately thank you or repay you. The best I can do is to tell you I am aware of how fine you’ve been and to tell you I am appreciative. 


                Have been reasonably busy this week. The Colonels are growing a little impatient to be on their way to China but from the looks of the situation there with their Civil War flaring up more and more it may be some time before the trip can be made. I’m beginning to wonder if perhaps they’ll not decide to go to Australia before they go to China but they’ve said nothing about that!


                Was very, very pleased to receive a nice long letter from John this week. He sounded as though things were going pretty well for him – he’s pleased to be back at work six days a week and I sure can’t blame him. From what he said in his letter I suspect he’s visiting you this very week-end. Certainly wish I could join you.


                The four of us are planning a little week-end outting this weekend beginning, as a matter of fact, in about three hours. We’re going by train down to a place which is on the north side of Mt. Fuji. It’s a resort area of considerable renown; there’s supposed to be some very beautiful scenery down that way – lakes, and mountains, and forests! Right at the moment the weather is beautiful – hope it continues that way. Have color film in my camera right at the moment and it takes bright sun to get good pictures!


                Right now I have several matters to take care of in preparation for this afternoon’s trip so I think I’d better be at them.


                Happy Mother’s Day, Mother, and happy day to you too, Dad
                                                                Much love,
                                                                                Dick
Tokyo, Japan                        
Wednesday, May 15, 1946        
Dear Mother and Dad and John,


                Well, it’s the end of the day after! The day after I heard that that my discharge application has gone through successfully! Twas yesterday afternoon about 3:#0 when the phone rang; Colonel Northrup answered it and told me the call was for me. It was the First Sergeant calling from the Orderly Room, he said (and these were thrilling words) “Mahard, come on over to the Orderly Room right way your discharge has been approved and you need to fill out some forms in connection with it.” You can imagine how I felt to hear that news. My heart was up in my throat and my hands trembled! I went over to the Orderly Room and found out what I had to do – had to submit another formal request for discharge and sign it and furnish them with the same information concerning my military record I sent to Washington in the first place.[af]


                When I got back to the office and told the Colonels, they shook hands and said that they were happy that it had worked out successfully for me. Then they asked me what I wanted to do with regard to the trip to Australia which is scheduled to begin on May 25! Well, I was on the horns of a dilemma believe me. The Colonels said that if I wanted them to they’d call up and have the discharge delayed until the middle of June and then I could go on the trip. They said it was up to me. I was in a stew and about all I could do was pace the floor. They didn’t insist on knowing my answer right away and so I stewed about it all last evening and I woke up early this morning thinking about it still. Finally I decided – decided not to go on the Australia trip! As it is now the discharge is a bird in the hand and I’m afraid that if the Colonels ask for the delay that the bird will get into the bush and I’ll not be able to get him back again. There were other considerations too. It was hard to think of staying over another month when I have the chance to leave within a few days. There’s the element of danger on the Australian trip – it’s funny, once a person has an Army discharge in sight he feels like going to bed and staying there just so that nothing will happen to him before he gets a chance to obtain that discharge! If I gave up the Australian trip there’s a chance one of the other fellows – Ed or Larry – will have a chance to go; I felt a little like a dog in a manger having the discharge and hanging onto the trip too. Of course, I feel badly about giving up the trip because it would have been a marvelous one, but in the long run I think the decision I made will be wide.


                It was funny – about an hour after I received the telephone call I received a letter from Marian with a copy of a letter enclosed which Colonel Hinshaw in Washington had written to Dr. Hollis, the Office of Education representative. If I’d have gotten that letter before the telephone call, I would have been quite certain that the discharge had gone through because Colonel Hinshaw said in the letter that the matter had been turned over to the Adjutant General’s office. I suppose it was the Adjutant General’s office which got in touch with Headquarters here and had them order my discharge.


                What’s the next move? Well, in from three to five days I’ll be ordered to report to the Replacement Depot in Yokohama. There’ll be some processing to do there –  guess they take some of our equipment away from us and check some of our records. When that is done, we sit and wait for a ship. We may wait a day or two days or twenty days. However, I think that with so few men going out, I’ll probably not be ordered to the Depot until there’s a ship due in or better to say due out! The voyage across the ocean will take from nine to fifteen days depending upon the kind of ship. We’ll land either at Seattle or San Francisco and it’s hard to tell which it’ll be. From there we ought to move out rather quickly; I should be sent back to Atterbury and the final steps there take three days or so! I suppose it’s foolish to make any predictions but I told Marian in a letter I wrote this afternoon that with luck I’d make it between the 5th and 10th of June. Even with bad luck I should make it by June 20th. The biggest “nigger in the woodpile” is the ship situation here! I heard a rumor this afternoon that the first ship is not due to leave until June 1; can take a rumor or leave it!


                Guess that’s about the story. If I do make it by the middle of June or there-abouts I don’t know what we will decide to do this summer. I hardly think it wise to plan on field work in California because I’m very doubtful that we’ll be able to take delivery on our car in time; that’s one thing and then too I don’t feel that I’m ready to undertake the work. Should make more preparation, do more library work, etc. Also I’m not anxious to be away from home again right away. Marian’s job enters the picture and of course the financial problem always rears its ugly head. Quite an ideal thing would be for me to try to land a job teaching the summer session at Ohio State; I could commute back and forth from Granville. Well, we’ll wait and see – this is one problem Marian and I will not have to decide by means of 20 days apart exchanges of letters![ag]


                Received your letter of May 5th today, Mother. Sorry to hear about the frosts; darn it all anyway. There’s only one thing – it seems to me that in spite of the fact that the fruit farmers always say, “the frost took everything” there always seems to be quite a lot of stuff when the season comes round!


                Glad to hear about the apartment you were able to rent, John. Sounds right ritzy. Gosh, of course I don't care about the blanket – glad you can use it!


                Golly sakes, Mother, did I forget to tell you that the package which you sent on March 25 from Granville arrived safely sometime about April 26th. I’m sorry – I thought sure I wrote about it. Thank you a lot – we all enjoyed the candy and I’m certain that some of the Japanese here are very grateful that you sent it too!


                We went out to the International Trials this morning. There wasn’t so very much going on but it was very interesting. Saw old Tojo and all the rest of the “boys” who were a pretty sad looking lot believe me! Today the defense attorneys were trying to prove that the indictments were improperly written and that there was no existing “body of law” under which the men could be tried. The tribunal listened politely but, of course, this argument will never be allowed.[ah]


                Guess that’s about all for this time and perhaps this is all from Tokyo. ‘Spec I’ll be seeing you in about a month – what do you think of that! Certainly consider myself one very lucky fellow! Certainly have no cause to complain about the way this whole discharge deal has gone so far. 
        So long, Folks,
                                                                                        Love,
                                                                                                Dick
4th Replacement Depot
15 miles out in country
Dear Mother and Dad,                                                        from Yokohama
                                                                                Saturday May 25, 1946
        Here I sit – waitin’ for a ship to come in. Came down here last Monday on the 20th and had high hopes that we would be “processed” and leave within a couple of days to board a ship which was scheduled to sail yesterday the 24th. However I and six of the other fellows of the twelve men who came down from Tokyo together was held here because we hadn’t had a small pox vaccination recently enough! About the middle of this month the order came through that all men were to be given another vaccination but our dispensary didn’t get around to doing it and that was our tough luck. They vaccinated us on Wednesday and today they’re supposed to check the thing to make certain it took – mine did take. It swelled up and turned red and itched just as it is supposed to!
        Now the only information we have as to when we may leave is a constantly recurring rumor that a ship is due in on Monday the 27th and it scheduled to leave on June 1. If that’s so it will mean we’ll leave a week from today. Golly that seems like a long time – time goes very slowly here these is absolutely nothing to do except read and lie around on our cots!
Drew K.P. on Thursday from 6:00 until 12:00 but it was not hard work – suspect we may draw it again before we leave!
        Almost all of the men who are in the depot now are men getting out on dependency discharges – there are a few other “convenience of the Gov’t” discharges like mine. Right at the moment dependency discharges seem to be very easy to get. Almost anyone with two children is getting out and some fellows with one child are making it and some single men with dependent parents too. I think they’re carrying in a bit too far one of these days they’ll shut down on them and then even the real needy cases will not be favorably considered. That’s the Army always from one extreme to another!
        This depot is located in a former Japanese Army Officers training camp and it’s really an elaborate place so far as Japanese standards are concerned – quite nice as far as American standards of Army Camps go also We live in a huge barracks of which there are several here but the barracks is divided into small rooms accomodating twelve men. Our latrine, washrooms, and mess hall are located outside the barracks. There is a nice Red Cross bldg and a good theatre and a gym where we play come ping pong Have pitched some horse shoes also. 
        I probably could get a pass to go into Tokyo this weekend but I don’t know what the boys plan to do and it they happen to be gone – there would be nothing to do or no one to see especially. I’m afraid too that they will have sent all my mail back. I didn’t have foresight enough to have them hold it for a week or some in case my departure was delayed.
        In spite of the delay getting away from here I still think I’m lucky to get away from here on my discharge as early as June. I hadn’t dared hope that it would be earlier than July. Well, I certainly will make it in time for the peaches. Now I’m wondering if there’ll be some strawberries when I get there!                                                                probably Seattle
        If we should leave here around or on June 1 that’ll put us on the West Coast ^ about June 12th. If the rail roads are running, we should get away from there pretty quickly. With luck I should be at Camp Atterbury shortly after June 15. Have no notion what Marian can plan to do I will try to call her from the West Coast. In as much as Commencement at Denison is on June 17 she might be able to have that week off as one of her vacation weeks but on the other hand that may be a busy week for her and the Dean might want her to take the next week. I guess I’ve been thinking that she would split her vacation – take one week or two when I get home and then 3 weeks or two later in the summer just before school begins!
        I suspect Marian is having quite a frantic time trying to figure out what to do about moving etc. It’ll all be a mystery to me because I probably won’t be able to hear from her for almost three weeks or until we arrived in Seattle or San Francisco probably Seattle!
        So long, Folks, hope to see you in less than a month.
                                                                Love,
                                                                        Dick
Sunday June 2, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad,
                Still at the replacement depot but will be leaving here probably sometime early this afternoon for Yokohama to board the ship the GOUCHER VICTORY which will sail for the states either late tonight or early tomorrow morning. I talked to a fellow who previously worked at the port in Yokohama and he told me the GOUCHER V. makes the voyage in 11 days. If that’s true, we should get into Seattle sometime June 12th– perhaps I’ll be able to call Marian as an anniversary present. From June 3rd to June 12th may not seem to be 11 days but it will be because when we’re in mid-ocean and cross the International Date Line we repeat a day!
                I was very disappointed to miss sailing on the MARINE SERPENT which sailed yesterday. All the other fellows of my group went on that ship but they were all going on dependency discharges and when the orders for the ship were made up they didn’t include the relatively few of us going home on “occupational” discharges! Of the 700 men sailing for home on the GOUCHER VICTORY only nine are on “occupational” discharges so you see they’re pretty rare!
                After we land in Seattle we’ll hang around for a couple of days (hope it’s no more than that) waiting for rail transportation to be arranged through to Chicago and thence to Atterbury. We’ll probably have a layover in Chicago and will call you from there if at all possible. I’m guessing right now that everything should be finished at Atterbury by Saturday June 22! You know a lot more than I do about whether Marian will meet me at the Camp or not. It would be nice if she could but I know it will depend on whether she can get the time off and whether she’ll have transportation available. I have my fingers crossed hoping that by some stroke of luck we’ll have our car by then but I’, afraid there’s very little chance!
                I’m certainly glad this two weeks waiting period here at the Depot is just about finished. Can’t complain though because my luck has been marvelous otherwise. Hope the trip home comes off without mishap. Am a little afraid I’ll suffer from sea sickness but have my fingers crossed!
                That’s about the story from here – When I next get in touch with you it’ll be from the good old UNited States – it’ll seem good to me after only five months overseas; how must it have seemed to some of the fellows with two or three years!
                So long, Folks, won’t be long until I see you —
                                                                        Love,
                                                                                Dick
Thursday Afternoon        
June 13, 1946                
Dear Mother and Dad,
                The U.S. is in sight! We first saw land about 8:00 this morning – the mountains of Vancouver Island which is in Canada. Now we are in the Strait of Juan de Fuca; about ½ way through the strait opposite the city of Port Angeles we’ll stop for a while to pick up a pilot who will take the ship through the channels of Puget Sound to Seattle. The news as they tell it to us now is that we’ll arrive in Seattle about 11:00 tonight but we’ll not be able to get off the ship until tomorrow morning.
                Voyage almost finished – if we get in at 11:00 tonight it will have taken us 11 days (24 hour days) and 8 hours – the total distance travelled: just a little over 5000 miles! Seems like we’ve been on the ship a long time and yet the time has passed quite swiftly mostly because I have kept very busy. The first night we came aboard at Yokohama the put up a notice that they wanted volunteers as typists in the Special Services office. It meant staying away from K.P. so I volunteered. The job finally led to printing a daily ship’s newspaper which we called the GOUCHER GROWL. Had a lot of fun doing it – wrote quite a few articles, cut mimeograph stencils, printed headlines, etc. etc. I really got to be sort of the boss believe it or not! And, as I say, keeping busy made the time pass. Also kept my mind off being sea sick. Did not really get sick at any time but for the first 2 or 3 days I had a funny unpleasant headache and a felling of nausea a lot of the time. We really had very smooth weather a lot of the time. Once for a period of 30 hours or so we passed through an area of large swells which caused the ship to roll enough to make dishes slide around on the table!
                Tomorrow we’ll be taken to Ft. Lawton, which is located right within the city of Seattle. The big job they’ll do there is arrange transportation for us to our separation centers – Atterbury in my case. We’re not supposed to have to stay at Lawton any longer than 72 hours and it should be less than that. Am hoping to be started by train across the country by Sunday sometime. If that happens we should be in Chicago by Thursday and Atterbury Friday (June 21) Looks as though my hopes of making it out by the 22nd will not be realized but it shouldn’t be long after that.
                Guess that’s about all for now – wanted to get this written so I can mail it just as soon as we go ashore tomorrow.
                Seemed a long ways from home last summer when I was out this way but now it seems like I’m almost home! Am afraid thought that the train ride will seem long.
                So long, Folks – see you before too long
                                                Love
                                                        Dick
[a]January 21, 1946 Quote
[b]Discharge and demobilization - January 26, 1946
[c]Military Crit
[d]Japan Crit
[e]Mail problems - February 9, 1946
[f]Mail!
[g]discharge
[h]also discharge
[i]Mail!
[j]currency
[k]mail
[l]currency
[m]also currency
[n]commentary on japan and war
[o]discharge
[p]army crit
[q]poltics
[r]mail
[s]discharge
[t]discharge
[u]army crit
[v]discharge
[w]travel/army
[x]discharge
[y]TIME!
[z]discharge
[aa]Manila
[ab]us gov and draft
[ac]finally some teaching
[ad]teaching too
[ae]teaching
[af]discharge
[ag]discharge
[ah]COURT