Thursday Night May 19, 1945
Dear Mother + Dad:
			Am really tired tonight but will take a few minutes to write and say that my mail began arriving at last this afternoon – it was here for 12:15 mail call today but I was working at the rifle range so did not get it until the 5:15 call! The registered letter has arrived but it’s at the Battalion Headquarters so I’ll not be able to get it until tomorrow.
			Let me explain what all the letters in the address mean.
			Private R.H. Mahard, 35985568
Company A, 7th Battalion, Basic Training Section Army Service Forces Training Center
Fort Lewis, Washington
						[Arrow pointing at Washington] Think it’s right!
			I think that Charlie McAllister is probably less than a ½ mile from where I am – I’ll try to look him up. Probably not tomorrow though because I’m on K.P. from 5:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. – ain’t that sumpin?
			Had a pretty “rough” detail today too. Worked all day on the rifle range walked 4½ mile there and 4½ home again. We had to push the targets up for the men to fire at then we’d pull them down, patch the hole and signal the score they made – it was quite interesting but quite hard and dirty!
			It’s looking more and more as though we may get going on our +-“basic” training next week – don’t think they’re going to move us again after all!
I heartily approve of your idea of writing often – boy, mail means everything here!
Will really have to hit the hay now not long until five!
What did John think about		Love,
my bein in the Army?							Dick

Sunday Morning
May 13, 1945 9:15
Dear Folks:
		Just a page to tell some news of the past two or three days.
		First of all I got the registered letter all O.K. and yesterday afternoon I managed to get the forms all filled in and notarized – got my finger prints taken too. I think the material is all in order so I’ll send it in. If it isn’t right they can write me and I’ll work on it some more – what a lot of red tape.
		Friday all day I worked on K.P. and it was pretty tough going – we were up at 4:30 and we didn’t finish up until after 7:00. I did everything from crack ½ case of eggs to scrub pots and pans – did the latter job for 6 hours straight. Peeled a few spuds too! The good part was that we had plenty to eat! The mess hall where we worked was one of the ones in the 1st Battalion – that’s the one Chuck McAllister is in. I didn’t see him but I was busy as the boys came through the line so I might have missed him – then too that Battalion would have several mess halls. I’ll try to contact him, perhaps this afternoon!
		Yesterday we had our first inspection and I escaped unscathed. Our barracks got along all right except they found some dust on the rafters – they’re quite particular aren’t they!
		The weather you’ve been having sounds bad indeed – it has been raining here continuously for the past four days – no sign of a let up today either!
		Rumor has it that tomorrow we start our basic training – hope so! We still don’t know whether we’ll be moved from this Company and Battalion or not – keep sending mail to the same address until you hear. 
		Oh say – here’s something. I think that somewhere in that filing case in our desk you’ll find an envelope with a photo of me. Will you send one please to the following address: Miss LEONA M. REAL
DEP’T OF THE INTERIOR
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, ROOM 4227
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
You had better write my name on the back of the photo and say also “taken in 1941” The photo must be on file at the personnel office of the Survey. Please let me know if you manage to find the photo O.K.! Thanks a lot.
		Have to hurry now to get this in the mail so it will go out today.
		Write often – letters mean so much!
						Love,
							Dick

Sunday Afternoon
May 13, 1945
Dear Mother + Dad:
			Wrote and mailed a letter earlier today but since then the package you sent has arrived – it was a lot of fun to get it and it arrived in good condition. Now I’m writing to ask you to send something more. Perhaps Marian has already written to you about some of the items. Most of all I’m anxious to have those shower slippers – they’re in the box in the attic along with all our winter clothes and my gymnasium equipment – I think they are anyway – I seem to remember it’s that wooden tea box. At any rate it’ll probably be less – but not much less – than a day’s work to find them. Next in importance is a number of wire clothes hangers – select about a dozen heavy wire ones all as nearly alike as possible. I thought I might want you to send those wooden ones but now I think not!
			Golly, seems as though there was something more I wanted but can’t seem to think of it at the moment.
			We’ve had a nice day today – got up late (7:30) – went to chapel at 10:30 and to a movie this afternoon – had a lunch at Post Exchange and now I’m back at the Barracks for the day. Going to go to bed early because tomorrow may be a tough day.
			I had a letter from Charlie Hunt saying that the office of the Chief of Engineers had sent a telegram to the classification officer at Camp Atterbury recommending me for work with the Military Intelligence Division Office, Chief of Engineers I don’t know if the telegram reached there before we were shipped or not. I have written to Hunt asking that he have another telegram sent here – it will be very important to have such a telegram on file when we finish our basic training because at that time the most crucial “classification” of all takes place. Hope it comes through O.K.
			Guess that’s all for this time. Goodnight folks
									Love, Dick

Thurs May 17, 1945
8:15 a.m.
Dear Folks:
		It’s a strange time for me to be writing. Ordinarily at this hour I’d be out on some “detail” or another, but this morning I have received a break. At 9:00 I have to report to the First Sergeant and he’s sending me over to the Main Fort (about 1 mile from here) with our marriage license. The license has to be sent to Newark, N.J. to the office of dependency benefits before Marian will receive any more allotment checks. The check which she received the other day was the initial one which is sent directly from the Induction Station – in my case Camp Atterbury. That first check was all “gravy” none of it came from my pay. In the case of the ones from now on $22.00 comes from my pay and the Gov’t contributes $28.00.
		Speaking of money, we have still not been paid for April and I personally am not expecting to be paid for some time. Some of the boys are getting pretty anxious though – especially those who lost the money they brought with them in a crap game or a poker game. Yes, plenty of gambling goes on, but it’s not for me – nor can I understand why the fellows get such a kick out of it!
		Well today is the first day in the last eight which has not been rainy and it looks as though the rain is going to start any minute. I guess the fine weather we had the first of last week was very unusual indeed.
		Day before yesterday they transferred some of the boys to another Company and yesterday they were issued their rifles and Monday they start their “basic” training in earnest! Golly I certainly wish we could get going, but I’m afraid it may be quite a while yet. They seem to be having a difficult time getting officers enough – the other day, though, we were sent a new captain and things began to move a little faster.
		One of the fellows who came with our bunch from Atterbury is getting a break – guess you’d call it that. He had a hernia and a big tumor on his shoulder. On Monday he was operated upon for the hernia and in a couple of weeks they’ll take the tumor off. He’ll be in the hospital for 5 to 6 weeks and then they’ll send him all the way back to Ohio on a convalescent furlough. Doesn’t that make sense? I suppose there were no hospitals closer to Camp Atterbury, Ind. than Fort Lewis, Washington! Well, as they say, there’s a right way to do a thing and then there’s the Army way!
		Marian said in her letter which arrived yesterday that you were sending the hangers and  woul send the shower slippers – I’m certainly anxious to get them. Thanks very much for all the trouble you’ve taken!
Guess now that I’d better make this all for this time and get going to see the “Sarge”
So long, Folks
write often 
Love,
Dick
P.S, Saw Chas. MacAllister the other evening – ran into him by accident on the bus. He's two weeks into his “basic” – says it’s not bad. Boy, he’s a big fellow – weighs over 220! He's afraid his diabetes may flare up because he’s eating so much! 
Did you hear that June Travis had an auto accident? Didn’t hurt her or the b but wrecked their car!

Saturday Night
May 19, 1945
Dear Folks:
 	In a new place tonight – made a big move this afternoon – about 100 yards! Am now in the “B”  company instead of “A” and am in the 2nd platoon of the company. This is where we’ll stay for our basic. Basic training, however, will not commence until a week from Monday and will last for six weeks. That means we should be finished on 14th of July. (Wish that meant the end of my stay in the Army!) 
This next week I suppose we’ll do “detail” just as we have been doing these past two weeks, but perhaps not quite so much of it! 
The Sergeant who will be in charge of our Platoon seems to be a pretty nice fellow and if that iis so it certainly will help a lot! A bunch which came from Atterbury is a little split up because they put us into Platoons alphabetically – I’m located quite close of a couple of the others though!
 Am not in much of a writing mood tonight so I think I’ll finish this in the morning – it’s almost time for lights out anyhow! Goodnight, folks 
									Love
Before I forget it again, thanks a million for the air mail stamps!		Dick

Sunday Morning
May 20, 1945
Hello again,
		Breakfast over – it was a little later this morning 7:45 – it’s strange how a person’s idea of late and early can change. In Granville 7:45 was early and 6:00 (the regular breakfast hour here) was simply unimaginable!
		Quite a good night last night except that one damn fool came in all beered up at about one o’clock and woke everyone up. I know what I’d like to do to him, but I’d be court martialed for it! He’s lying in his bunk just across from me now snoring for all he's worth – Most of the fellows are a pretty nice sort but sprinkled through are some bad ones!
		Am going to Chapel after a while and then after dinner will go over to the Main Fort area to service club and some of us are going to try to visit the two boys from our 13 who are in the hospital. One was operated upon for a hernia (he also has a tumor) and the other has a bad knee. That reminds me – for goodness sakes tell John when you see him that to get into the Army is absolutely the last thing a man should want to do! And, believe me, I really mean it! Any means fair or foul used for staying out is justified. 
		Saw Charlie McAllister march by yesterday when all the men were on their way to the parade area. He was easy to pick out – being as tall as he is, he is in the first rank of his platoon. 
		The package with the hangers nor the one with the shower slippers have not arrived yet. They are in separate packages aren’t they? I hope that this move we made will not delay them. Mail addressed to us at “A” company will go there (100 yards distant) then back to the Main Fort then back here to “B” company. That’s the Army! However for the next couple of days we’ll try to intercept it down there – that is at “A” company!
			Just checked your letters and read that you sent the slippers Monday and the hangers Wednesday. Perhaps the slippers will arrive today – we have a mail call right after dinner
			Think that ends this chapter – will keep you informed of “progress”
									Love,
										Dick

Thurs. May 24, 1945
Dear Folks:
		Forgotten when last I wrote to you, but I’m sure it has not been since I received the two packages. The hangers arrived yesterday and the slippers today. I can’t figure out why the one sent last arrived first but it may be because the slippers were insured and hence had to go to battalion headquarters where I have to go to pick them up. Thanks very much for sending them!
		Have I told you that we have moved again. Yes, it was yesterday – this time we’ve moved to another area of the Fort about a mile from where we were. But, inasmuch, as the whole Battalion moved our address remains exactly the same. So yesterday was a busy day – made even busier because at 5:15 last evening I was told I was one of the eight picked for “guard” duty. We had to wash, shave, dress, eat and be ready to report for inspection at 6:00. I walked my beat from 6-8 and then was off for four hours – could not undress, however, – and then was on duty from 12:00 to 2:00. At 2:00 we were allowed to go to bed, but believe me 5:30 came very soon after that. All the guard duty involved was watching for fires – last night we did not carry a rifle but later we probably will!
		This morning I “caught” a carpentering detail – repaired the mail box where we mail our letters and fitted a couple of hasps on doors. As usual, the task was made as difficult as it possibly could be by the fact that no good tools were available, no suitable wood, and I had to pull and straighten nails and use second hand screws. If the Army has all the stuff that civilians can’t get, the Army is going to keep it forever all lined up in the warehouses!
		Guess I didn’t explain why we moved Rumor has it that the area we vacated will be taken over by Negro troops – that’s a good possibility because they’re certainly moving them in here in great numbers! Others are arriving too – soon, they say, there’ll be nearly 10,000 men in the Basic Training Section alone – it is also said that there are 40,000 here at Fort Lewis altogether!
		Think we’ll really get started on our training on Monday – if so we should finish up about the middle of July – the 14th. If things work out for me as they have for another boy I met who has had graduate training in Geology, I’ll then be sent to Fort Belvoir, Virginia (50 miles from Washington D.C.) Wouldn’t that be something? Hope so! Hope so!
		That’s the story for the time being I guess. Thanks again for the hangers and slippers!
Am enclosing a check for 25.00. Will you cash it and send me the money by registered mail. Don’t tell Marian! Want it for a gift for her for June 12!

								Love, 
									Dick

Friday June 1, 1945
Dear Folks:
		I have just a few minutes this morning before reporting for duty and I’ll jot down a few words to let you know I’m still perkin’ First let me say that the registered letter with the 25.00 arrived safely thank you for doing this for me. I think I’m going to do some shopping. 
		I received the check the other day from the Geol. Survey for the 5½ days I worked there ($45.12) I sent it home endorsed to Marian by registered mail – It would have been a nuisance to get it cashed here I have to have it signed by the Commanding Officer.
		This week beginning Wednesday and continuing through tomorrow I’ve been doing some special duty. I was selected to take an eleven hour “course” in how to be what is considered an “Information + Educational Service” representative. It simply mean that I’m supposed to be the fellow in our platoon who leads discussions concerning topics as war objectives, our attitude toward Britain + Russia, race tolerance etc. The Army you see feels that the fellows are too poorly informed concerning these matters and I’m supposed to be the teacher. The course has been quite interesting but I have missed quite a bit of our regular training which I’ll have to catch up on!
		Have to go now will try to write more later.
										Love,
											Dick

Dear Folks:										June 7, 1945
		Just a short note – your letter arrived today Mother. Sorry to hear that John didn’t have his visit with you – I don’t know what to say about the whole situation because I can’t understand it. I’m sorry for John because he has missed out on what I’ve been so lucky to have – a fine wife. I think that it’s something he’ll just have to work out for himself – he’ll take a beating doing it, but we can’t help him – you can’t and least of all can I help!
		The training is getting rough we’re terribly ruched from time to get up 5:30 am. until time for bed – six mile walk Tues., seven yesterday (last four a “forced” march) and today we ran the obstacle course twice with full pack, gas mask, canteen, cartridge belt, and rifle and walked three miles in addition! I should be home right now cleaning my rifle – because it took a beating on the obstacle course!
		Think however I’m holding up well and will soon begin to thrive on it – have gained some weight about 175 in regular clothes now!
		Am going to stop with only this page but I’ll try to write again this weekend!
								So long, Folks		love
										Dick

Monday evening
June 18 ‘45
Dear Folks:
		Just a “quickie” to let you know that everything is going along O.K. I’m sorry I can’t write more often but we’ve been terribly busy – being busy coupled with the fact that I’m so tired usually that I go to bed as early as I can leaves little time for writing.
		We were on the rifle range all day today – its dogs are really barking – I fired a little better today than last week when we were out but I still must improve. Fired well enough to “qualify” today (140 out of 210 is necessary) I made 144 – would like to bring it up to sharp shooter – 165 if I can! Fired from 500 yards today quite a long ways, at a 24 inch bullseye – also fired from 300 yards!
		Dad, am sending you some cigarettes tonite – the fellows here are rationed to six packages each week – you can have my last two weeks ration. Sorry they’re not all Philip Morris Marian tells me they’re your favorite –
		Was hot here today – we’ve had only one day of rain in three weeks – hope the weather holds up for our sixth week during which we’re out in the field on “bivouac” all week. “Basic” was half over last Saturday – today our fourth week began.
		Found out today that I’ll not be able to “put in” for Officer’s Candidate School until after I finish all my basic and “basic” may involve more than this six weeks – it depends upon where I’m sent at the end of this six weeks. I’m going to write again to Washington to try to bring some pressure to bear there. The Lt. told me today it would be a good idea. Am still hoping of course to be sent to Fort Belvoir, Va. – after I’m there I might have a better chance to work some of these angles. 	    got some blisters!
		Had better limp ^ over to the Post Office now with the package.
(On my letters wrote 7th Bn. instead of Bn. 7)		Love,
									Dick

Wednesday June 27, 1945
Dear Folks:
		Lights are out, but I feel I must try to get at least a note off to you tonite.
		We’ve been busy – busy day and night so far this week although tonite we were finished after a late supper after a “retreat” parade we had to march in. Have to be up at 4:30 tomorrow morning so I guess I’d better crawl in as soon as possible.
		Your letter with the two dollars arrived safely – Glad you got the cigarettes O.K. Dad – is that you talking or Mother when she says you can get all that’s good for you anyway?
		About the watch – it’s awfully nice of you to want to go in with Marian on it – there’s just nothing I’d like better or need more. There are no watches to be had around the P.X. here and I think to send to the company in N.Y.C. is the best bet probably. I have sent the literature back to Marian – I told her that she’d better try not to send it to me until we find out what’s going to happen to me after next week.
		Have absolutely no notion of what will happen – rumors are beginning to fly – the chief one being that many of us will end up at Camp Crowder, Missouri However, I’m inclined to think that my fate will be different than that of the others and I’m still hoping for the Fort Belvoir assignment – at once after finishing basic, but if not then soon after. I understand that some of the fellows in the last “b” Co. were shipped to a different part of this fort at first and then to Belvoir in a week or ten days. That might happen in my case, but I hope not!
		This week – day after tomorrow – we fire our rifles on the range for the record. I’m hoping I can do reasonably well. Fired rifles today on the “combat” range at man sized targets which “popped up” at various distances – it was fun.
		Tomorrow we go to the “combat village” Have to make a simulated attack on it and probably take a turn at defending it too!
		Have I told you that we will leave this Sunday on our “bivouac” We’ll live in tents and have maneuvers for six days (we come in Friday morning) It all can be sort of fun it the weather’s good, but I personally wish it were over. We’ll get mail out there and can mail letters too if we can find a way to write them and some time!
		Glad to hear about the cherries – you should make a nice little profit off them – I read in the paper that the Gov’t has bought the entire crop. Glad too that the grapes weren’t hurt too bad by the frost this spring.
		Boy, how I’d like to spend the rest of the summer with you – sometime maybe!
								Goodnight, Folks
Love,				
Dick			
Chas. McAllister would have finished his “basic” by now + is probably at some different place here on the Fort! Wouldn’t know where

Pvt. R.H. Mahard 35985568							Sunday July 8, 1945
Pit 3, Co A, 65th Bn. E.T.S.
A.S.F.T.C.			[arrow pointing at E.T.S.] Engineering Training Section
Fort Lewis, Washington

Dear Folks:
		The above is my new address – for how long I’m not able to say – perhaps for three days, perhaps for 12 weeks! Was moved over here yesterday afternoon along with about 75 other fellows from our training company. As yet nobody knows what the score is but that’s not unusual for the Army. This next week we’ll just mess around getting the company organized – that means carpentry work and painting and scrubbing etc. etc. We’ll probably be sent out to other companies on details too – same old story. Also during this next week we may again be “processed” and sorted into our specialities because this training is largely specialized as I understand it – there is a group of painters, a group of construction foremen, a group of demolition experts, a group of automotive mechanics, etc. etc. but how a geology teacher fits into the picture bewilders me! However, I am interested in this classification process because it might just mean that I would be shipped from this Fort elsewhere to take some training which is not given here – the topographic engineering for example which I think I mentioned once before.
		In other words just because yesterday I was transferred to this Engineers part of the Fort doesn’t mean that I have lost the chance I was hoping for of being sent East. The next few days should tell the story!
		Well the basic training is past history. The last week was not bad except for the march out there and the last two days which included the even more strenuous march back – 16 miles – and a night spent in the cold. I’ve written the details of the bivouac in my letters to Marian and she’ll send them on to you!
		I’m sorry to say that my watch hasn’t yet arrived. I expect it will be in tomorrow and I’ll go over to our old company tomorrow evening to pick it up so that they won’t have to mess around forwarding it. Thanks so very much, Mother and Dad, for helping to get it for me – I know I’ll like it a lot and I certainly need it badly. Also thanks a million for the five dollars – most of it will probably go for ice cream which is my one big vice in the Army. Lost a little weight on bivouac but will no doubt gain it right back.
		Well the song says that “Saturday Night is the Lonliest Night of the Week” but I say that Sunday night is – always am a little down on Sunday nights. But in a few minutes I’ll be going to bed and will go to sleep and forget it all. Don’t even ask what I would give to be there with you on the farm tonight. Always have liked it there and have been so sorry we’ve not been able to work with you more these past four years or so!
Goodnight, Folks		
Love		
Dick	
Sorry I haven’t written more but it has been hard to find the time and energy lately!

Tuesday, July 10, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad:
			Got my watch today and I’m so darn happy with it that I can hardly keep my eyes off it long enough to write this letter! Thanks so very much, Folks – honestly I can’t say how much I like it and appreciate it! All that and five dollars too – it’s just too much!
			Have myself a new job – got it last evening	Night work! Last night and tonight and probably tomorrow night too I’m acting as C.Q. (Charge of Quarters) at the 65th Battalion Headquarters – the Major himself is my boss! Now that sounds important doesn’t it! But it isn’t but it’s a good job. All I have to do is answer the telephone and last night it didn’t ring once. I have a bed here in the office and I go right ot bed at ten o’clock like everyone else and get up in the morning at 5:45 like everyone else. In the morning I have to sweep the floor and clean the wash basins etc. in the toilet. When the Major comes at 7:30 I’m through and I have the whole day off until 4:30p.m. when I report here again. 
			Got the job when after I had voluntarily gone to the First Sergeant and told him I’d like to work detail for him if he had anything for me. Yesterday all day I messed around at the Motor Pool helping to get a big crane moved but we accomplished exactly nothing – had enough of that kind of foolishness.
			Have had no word concerning re-classification or shipping orders although some men in one of the other companies of the 65th are being sent out on Saturday – some of them to a camp in Illinois – one of the fellows lives in Oregon– of course they would send him east and leave the eastern boys here! I personally am still hoping!
			We’ve had two very hot days in a row now and it’s really getting dry – you may have read about some forest fires out this way – the grass has entirely dried up – some contrast to the weather we had when we first arrived here!
			I got a pass when I finished work this morning went over to our old location and got my watch and then went to Olympia It was sorta fun to be there during the week when the stores were open – have been there mostly on Sunday. One thing I noticed was that there was plenty of meat on display in the butcher shops – I was really surprised
			Am getting sleep now so think I’ll do my work from the bed for the next few hours!
			Goodnight, Folks, and thanks once again for the marvelous watch – it’s just perfect.
Love		
Dick	

Sunday July 15, 1945
Dear Folks:
		Well here’s the new address – it’s sort of hard to keep track of me isn’t it?
Pvt. R.H. Mahard 35985568
This can be abbreviated		Co B 52nd Engr, Trng. Bn.
E.T.S 			Engineering Training Section
Fort Lewis, Washington
[Arrow pointing from E.T.S to Engineering Training Section]

		Got here about 8:30 last night – was supposed to transfer in the afternoon as the rest of the boys did but I was working for the 1st Sergeant at “A” 65th so he called up here and asked if I could stay on and help him finish up. Which I did do. Don’t know very much about the set up here. As near as I can find out the training is basic combat engineering. We’ll study a lot about demolitions, bridge building etc. etc. You know all the kinds of work the engineers take care of in combat areas. The training lasts for eleven weeks – that means we finish September 29 – the last three weeks is “bivouac.” After the training we’ll be shipped to a replacement center and after some processing will be given a 15 day furlough + travelling time – then back to the replacement center, then to a Port of Bubarkatim – then a long sea voyage!
		However don’t be too alarmed that’s all a very long ways off. Just as soon as I possibly can I’m going to find out what the story is on Officer’s Training. I asked the 1st Lt. at “A” 65 about it yesterday and he said he didn’t know if I could apply before I finish this training period or not. Certainly hope I can. If I can apply at once I’m going to do it! They say the training takes about six months and is very hard but it would be better than this. All officers are trained at Fort Belvoir – that is all Engineering Officers and that’s what I would be!
		I wrote to Marian the other day and proposed that, if it turned out I’d have to be here 3 months or so more, she consider coming out here. Suppose at first thought it seems crazy, but it really isn’t. Am getting pretty fed up with our being separated, we might just as well be together as much as we can while we can. Of course much will depend upon development during these next few days – if I can “out in” at once for OCS + if there is a possibility of its coming through at all soon M. wouldn’t come. And there are some other things I want to investigate too if I can.
		Glad to hear the cherry crop was a success – hope you didn’t tire yourselves all out picking them. What you going to do with the vacation Dad, how about driving out here?
		Guess that’s about all for this time. My watch is running swell and I like it more and more – thanks again,
Love				
Dick			

Wednesday, July 18, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad:
			Why the typewriter? Well, I have an office job again tonight. I’m acting as Battalion Charge of Quarters tonight – it’s the same job I had for a couple of nights last week when I was with the 65 Bn. As a matter of fact I suppose that I was chosen tonight partly because of the experience I had last week at the job.
		
			Another reason I have the job though has to do with another new leader of our platoon. It isn’t much – I have to take roll of my squad in the morning and report the squad “All present or accounted for” when the Sergeant asks me for the report. Perhaps later the squad will be split into two groups for training purposes and if that is done I’ll be in charge of one half of the gang! Well as a “reward” for being assistant squad leader, I do not have to draw K.P. duty nor Guard duty, but I do draw this Batalion C.Q. job from time to time – don't’ really know how frequently it will be
			
			Our training is getting under way. On Monday we had quite a bit of marching and manual of arms which was, of course, in the nature of a review because we all had the same stuff in “basic”. Yesterday morning we had a lot of work with knot tying and lasnings and that sort of thing, did quite a bit of work with various kinds of block and tackle equipment. In the afternoon yesterday we learned to be carpenters in ten easy lessons – first we attended a movie with showed the correct method of using the basic tools and then we went to a training area where we had a chance to drive a nail, plane a board, cut a board with a saw etc. etc. Some stuff I’ll say. [-?]ny all this? Well you see a Combat Engineer has to be sort of a jack-of-all-trades because he can never tell just what sort of problem he is going to encounter – that’s the general idea anyway, I guess. A lot of the fellows are beginning to gripe about the whole business already, but I don’t guess it’s going to do them much good.

			This morning we continued our training with the various types of tools and equipment. This morning we had a chance to use such tools as the axe, adze, cross-cut saw, peavey, cant-hook etc. and also shovels, picks, and rost-hole diggers (the auger type which doesn’t work worth a darn.) It sounds silly doesn’t it? But on the other hand plenty of the fellows showed signs of never having had a tool in their hands before and they’ll certainly need to know something about them when we begin to build bridges etc.

			Happy Birthday, Mother, I bought a card for you about two weeks ago, but the date slipped up on me and I just mailed it today. I hope it reaches you in time. I had planned, at Marian’s suggestion, to have my picture taken and to send you one for your birthday present, but with all the confusion of the past two or three weeks I just couldn’t manage to get it in. When things get settled down a little bit I’ll try to manage it.

			Guess I wrote didn’t I that Marian and I have just about decided that she should come out here to pay me a visit. We’ve made no arrangements as yet. Don’t know how much I’ll be able to see her, but even if it’s only twice or three times a week it will be worth it. Right now it looks very such as though I’ll be here eight more weeks and probably for eleven after which I’ll get a furlough. Then, if I don’t go to Officer’s Candidate School, an overseas assignment it a very strong liklihood – might just as well face that fact right now whether we like it or not!

			Think I had better wind this letter up and give up using this typewriter before someone objects. Write often won’t you? I enjoy so much hearing about how things are at the farm.
									Love,
										Dick

[Written on the left side of the paper reads: My watch is swell! I’m going to send the other one home as soon as I get a chance – perhaps you can have it repaired!]

July 24, 1945
Tues. 6:10 p.m.
Dear Mom + Dad –
	Will try to tell you all the news – yesterday morn. I walked for a long while looking at the Capital grounds. The flowers are beautiful – and for a Roins [-?] for [illegible] sign! 


Cannot read well – have Tam transcribe. 

109th day [box drawn around 109th day]				Thursday August 9, 1945

Death Mother and Dad,
			I’m really very sorry that I have allowed a big break to form in my chain of letters – Marian’s coming completely upset my routine and the time I formerly had for writing has been taken up (very pleasantly I assure you) seeing her.
			I’ll come to the really big news first – I’m being transferred from here to Fort Myer, Virginia on August 15! It came out of a perfectly blue sky day before yesterday. I have no notion why I’m going nor have I any notion what I’ll be doing after I arrive. Fort Myer is a relatively small camp right across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C. The week we lived with the Neuschel’s in Arlington, Virginia we went right past the gate of Fort Myers on the bus going to work. I suspect that most of the soldiers stationed there work at some sort of a specialty in Washington or perhaps at the Pentagon Bldg which isn’t far away At any rate I’m really excited about the whole thing —
			Now here’s some more of the story – when the Company Clerk told me that I was leaving he also asked me if I had a car which I would want to drive East. The fact that he asked me that made me suspect that there might be some advantage in driving over travelling by train so I asked him about it. He explained that if I did have a car and did want to drive the Army would probably give me from 14 to 16 days to make the trip and would pay me at least three cents a mile. Well I knew that we could make the trip in 7 days or so and at once I had visions of a chance at a week spent at home so I took a deep breath and said to the Clerk – Yes, tell them I do have an Auto and I do want to drive” He said O.K.! So there I was in a self-dug hole without even a chance to talk it over with Marian or you folks or the Neirs.
			I managed to get a pass yesterday morning and I rushed over to tell Marian the news (wasn’t able to telephone her Tues. evening because we had a night problem) and as usual she was sweet enough to agree with my decision and so I started out to buy a car! What a job! Went to Tacoma first and grew very discouraged with what I found there – boy, what jaloppies and what prices – for example the best one I saw was a 1935 Plymouth – $596! After Tacoma I came back to a suburban community called South Tacoma and had little luck there Went then to Olympia and at the first place found the best proposition of the day – a 1935 Chevrolet 4 door sedan recently repaired (a poor job but it covered the rust spots) The dealer (a very nice guy) insisted that the car had but one previous owner (he offered to give us their name) and I have faith he was right because the car hasn’t been hurt in any serious accident The motor sounded good, the tires have quite a lot of tread and have not been recapped, the battery is new. Well as you have guessed when Marian got in from the Fort and had looked the car over and we had taken a ride we bought it! How much$ Well I’m ashamed to say – $525 – isn’t that terrible? Yes, it’s terrible and also foolish probably but there are foolish days. We decided we’d just spend the money we have saved and let the chips fall where they may. How did we get the money – well we used the C.O.D. system – you know Call On Dad – this time Dad Neir! We called them last night and had them telegraph the money today – Marian will close the deal tomorrow night and we’ll be able to get the certificate of registration etc. by Saturday!
			So that’s that! Plans now are that we’ll leave here next Wednesday (15th) early in the morning I hope – will probably take us at least six days to get to Michigan considering that the old bus gives us no trouble. I still don’t know when I’ll have to be in Virginia but am hoping it’ll be around the 30th. We’ll be waiting to spend a day or so in Granville but I guess we’d better not make too many plans until we put some of those numerous miles between here and the Middle West behind us.
			And so it begins to look like the travelling Mahards are ready to take to the road again We’re looking forward to a grand trip home through some country I’ve not seen before and we have our fingers crossed hoping nothing mars our hastily laid plans.
			Guess that’s pretty much the story – exciting, eh? Hope I’ll be able to fill in the details in person a little over ten days from now.
			Marian was going to tell her boss today that she is leaving – they’ll be disappointed because she had really made good and was going to be given a better job but that’s the Army as they say here – a person never knows what’s coming next all one can do it make the decisions if need be and hope he has guessed right.
			It’s past bed time now so I’ll close we’ll keep in touch with you regarding any new developments.
			By the way don’t let our coming alter in any way any vacation plans you may have made
						Goodnight now, Folks
								Love 	Dick

137th day [box drawn around 137th day]					           Thurs. Morning
Sept. 6, 1945
Dear Folks,
		Starting off another day of waiting for something to happen. I seriously doubt if anything will happen, but in the Army one can only “sweat it out”, wonder, and hope. However, generally speaking, this is not a bad place for waiting – for example it’s now 8:15 a.m. and it’s still fifteen minutes until time for late breakfast! Breakfast at 8:30 – that’s hard to believe isn’t it? I stay over in the city with Marian get up at 7:00 – 15 minutes to dress 15 minutes to drive over here – certainly glad we have Georgie! – arrive here at 7:30 I change into my fatigue clothes and help clean up the barracks – then it’s time for breakfast. After breakfast the day’s work starts – yesterday for example we mowed grass all day – well, not really all day 2½ hours in the forenoon and 1½ hours in the afternoon Days before yesterday we spent the day building little fences for the intersections of sidewalks to keep the fellows from walking on the grass. Very important duties – telling you – calls for no less than four years college education!
		There are about ½ dozen of us in the technical detachment at the moment – 2 chemists (one with his PhD) and 2 physicists and another whose specialty I’m not acquainted with. The others have all been here about a week longer than I have and are just waiting. Here’s the dope in short concerning this whole deal – First of all at Camp Atterbury I should have been picked out and assigned to an Army organization known as the “New Developments Division”. I would then have been sent to Camp Lee, Virginia for my six weeks basic training; at the end of the training I would have been brought here to Fort Myer just as I now have been and then would have been assigned to some job where my education would have been of some use. Well, as I said, the first move should have taken place at Atterbury but someone slipped up and I was sent way out to Fort Lewis What finally happened I don’t know, but some one must have been checking my records, found the mistake and ordered me sent here to Fort Myer. So you see when I arrived here on the 28th this Mr. Emerson, who is in charge of assigning us, was completely surprised to see me and I had to explain to him what I was doing here – some stuff!! So now Mr Emerson (formerly a mechanical engineering instructor at a college in Vermont) is trying to find an assignment for me. Of course, the end of the War has made things pretty complicated and most Army organizations are trying to get rid of men rather than take them on. There is some work going on in the far Pacific area which I could do (Sherm Neuschel’s over there now) but they can’t figure out a way to cut the red tape to get me there.
		So we wait — it’s a mess because Marian doesn’t know whether to look for a job or not because any day I may be assigned no know  telling where but on the other hand there is a possibility I’ll be assigned here in Washington or perhaps I’ll sit around here and wait for several days or weeks more. We’ve had quite satisfactory places to stay, but they’ve cost us much more than they’re worth. But that’s life in the Army and we’ll live through it probably and laugh about it later.
		Soon the colleges and schools will be opening and like a retired fire horse I’m anxious to go, but not this year I guess – by next year I hope!
Love,			
Dick		

[logo of the Military district of Washington D.C.]
MILITARY DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, D.C.
SAT MORN SEPT 15 ‘45
Dear Folks,
		Its raining here this morning and that interferes with our usual activity involving picking up cigarette buds and match sticks and gum wrappers so I’ll jot down a few lines. I forgot to bring my regular stationary over from [-?] the city this morning so this will have to do.
		Well I still know practically nothing about my future – however, I did call Mr. Emerson yesterday and he told me that he had turned me over to the Army Air Forces for duty and that they’ll be sending orders through on me one of these days! He indicated that the orders should be coming through soon – sorta expected them today maybe they’ll still come it’s early yet.
		I have little or no notion what kind of assignment the one with the Air Forces will be nor do I have any notion where it will be. Next to the last time I talked to Mr. Emerson he asked me if I knew anything about soils – he said the Air Forces wanted someone for some sort of research project on that subject. It sounded sort of good to me so I said yes I think I could handle the thing O.K. (I don’t really know anything about soils but I figure I can learn) I suppose the Air Forces are interested in knowing how various kinds of soil affects the building of airfields – for example the nature of the soil affects the rate at which the field would become muddy and the rate at which it would dry out the nature of the soil would also be important if grinding and filling had to be done when the field was being built – some soils are more easily compacted than others.
		So much for that – of course my assignment may be an entirely different one than this soils study one – the Army can change its mind you know!
		Am sure Marian has written to you about her new job Its quite similar to the one she had at Ft. Lewis – working in an office which hires people to work in the cafeterias in the Gov’t buildings. She fills out the million and one papers which have to be made out these days – takes the people’s fingerprints etc. etc.She is paid pretty well and also receives her morn meal free – so it’s a good job generally speaking. Don’t know what she will do if I’m transferred away from here – Last spring Virginia Neuschel wanted Marian to stay on in Washington and live with her – perhaps that’ll work out now – Virginia is in Granville now visiting her mother – will be coming back here in a week or two.
		Well it’s a couple of hours later than when I started this letter and no orders yet – not today now I’m afraid. Our duty is over at noon today. I’ll probably stay and eat and then go over to the city to meet Marian
		Don’t know if the long awaited [-?] Tigers - Senators series can go on today or not – the rain still comes down intermittently Everyone here is pretty excited about the chances of Washington beating out the Tigers for the pennaut. Guess every reserved seat has been sold out for a couple of weeks for this series of fire games.
		Darn glad to hear about the high price of grapes – wouldn’t it be nice to have five hundred tons or so to sell at that price? Don’t work too hard now harvesting that crop you two!
		Have to finish this up now We’ll let you know whats what as soon as we know.
						Love Dick

148th day [Box drawn around 148th day]				          Monday Sept 17, 1945

Dear Folks:
		Washington is getting sideswiped by the Florida hurricane today I guess – at any rate the rain is really coming down by the bucket full and it’s not a thunder shower in fact it feels very much like a good old fall rain.
		No news yet today about my future – thought I might hear something today but perhaps Monday is not really a good day to expect much to happen – well, can only wait and wonder when it is going to come!
		We had a nice day yesterday and the whole thing was unexpected. As we were eating breakfast I happened to look up and there were Catherine and Charlie Carlston – I knew them both at Columbia. Catherine graduated from Denison and they visited us once in Granville. Charlie works for e U.S. Geological Survey – has been in Alabama r almost five years – and is here in Washington doing some office work. However, he’s quitting the Survey and is taking a teaching job at St. Lawrence Univers in Canton, New York – it’s a small college similar to nison.
		Well we talked to the Carlstons for a long time while eating breakfast and then since Charlie had never seen Mt. Vernon we decided to drive down there. Spent most of the day that way but on the way back we stopped in at the very new modern and magnificent Washington Municipal Airport to watch the plans come and go – had a nice dinner there and then drove on into the city.
		Charlie tells me that some of the other Columbia people are at the Survey and we’re all going to try to get together – hope I’m still around here when the time comes.
		Looks like Congress and the Army are going to have a knock down fight over the matter of demobilization and drafting 18 year olds, doesn’t it? The Army is going to find out they’re not running the country any longer. However, as I analyze it I’m going to be lucky to be out a year from now no matter what happens – right at the moment I’m in about the worst possible position as far as getting discharge is concerned – not old enough, no points to speak of no children etc. etc.!! However, be out soon enough to start teaching again next fall – it seems a long way off now.
		There’s no other news so I guess I’d better call this all for this time.
								So long, Folks
									Love
								Dick and Marian

153rd day [box drawn around 153rd day]					September 22, 1945
So. Post, Ft. Myer, Va.
Dear Folks,
		We were certainly pleased to receive your letter yesterday – we hadn’t had a word from Michigan for several days. Marian is wondering if something could have happened to her Grandmother which was keeping Mother Neir from writing – maybe we’ll hear from yrs. today.
		Things go on here in about the same way we’re getting pretty fed up just waiting – never knowing when something is going to happen or what is going to happen gets pretty exasperating. If we had a way of knowing whether I’m to stay here in Washington we could make some move toward trying to find an apartment but as it is all we can do is hang onto our dreary little room and wait – will be four weeks this coming Tuesday!
		As Marian said on the card she wrote last night I’m making a struggle for a discharge. I heard that one of the educational organizations had advised the various colleges that the Army would consider applications for discharge from former teachers if the applications were accompanied by letters from the institution stating the nature and importance of the teacher’s work. I wrote at once to Pres. Brown and Prof. Wright and asked them to investigate the matter and send me the letters so I can make the application at once. I’m certain that Prof. Wright will do all he can because he’s very anxious to have me back at Denison by February so that he can take the semester off as he planned to do before I was drafted. I think Pres. Brown will cooperate too. However, how the Army will react is an entirely different question. I really don’t think there’s a chance in a million that it will go through but it is worth a try! Boy, wouldn’t it be wonderful though – so wonderful! I don’t dare think of it!
		So the Delewares are about ready to pick – how much are they going to bring this year? Ought to be quite a lot if Concords are slated to bring over a hundred per ton. Golly, I wish we could be there at the farm with you for the next month!
		Has a nice time Wednesday night at the Camerons – had dinner with the Carlstons first, then the four of us drove out to the Camerons very ni apartment in Virginia. Had a great time talking over old times. We also had a telephone call from Ralph Millers last night but we may not see them as they were leaving town again today for a week – they were staying at Sherm and Virginia's apartment. Virginia is due back in to town Tuesday they told us. The rent on our room is up on Monday we may telegraph Virginia to see if we could stay with her Tuesday night if we’re still here.
		Guess that’s all for now – write to us because our’s is a lonesome life these days!
Love,			
Dick + Marian		

Dear Mom and Dad,
	We met a couple from Columbia at breakfast yesterday morning – he works for the Survey and is in Washington for two weeks making some reports, and we happened to run into them at breakfast! Spent the day with them – went to see Mt. Vernon, and then stopped at the Airport and watched the planes come in for about two hours, and then had supper on the observation balcony. There is still no news about Dick. I’m at work now and it is just about time to go home so I’m hoping Dick will have some news tonight! I just got so uneasy waiting around I got this pretty good job – making out papers for people that this company hires – I do all the finger printing of [illegible] person too. Loads of love to you both, m.

201st day				Pvt. R.H. Mahard, 35985368			Wright Field
					9817 Technical Service Unit		     November 9, 1945
					Corps of Engineers
					Engineer Board
					Ft. Belvoir, Virginia
Dear Mother and Dad:
		Well here I go again – this time to Ft. Belvoir, Virginia (20 miles down Potomac from Washington, D.C.) There are three of us Larry Craig, Ed. Eckington and myself are supposed to leave this afternoon – Ed. and Larry have permission to ride with me – but Larry’s wife and child are in Springfield and he’ll probably take them to his wife’s home in Baltimore by train and Ed. wants to go to New York City tonight to see the men in the office of the Company for which whom he worked. It will probably turn out that I’ll leave here about Monday alone with Georgie (nickname of auto (a 1935 chev.)) and all our barracks bags and then we’ll all meet in Washington. We won’t know for sure until this afternoon when we have to report in at Belvoir so when we meet in Washington will depend on that.
		Marian is going to stay on here in Dayton at least for a while or until I can find out what the “deal” is going to be in Virginia. If it should appear that it’s a  somewhat permanent assignment she’ll join me. We had a letter from Virginia Neuschel saying that she may have a chance to go to Tokyo on a job for the Survey so their apartment might turn out to be available – it’s within driving distance of Belvoir though it’s quite a ways – 15 miles or so!
		There was no reaction one way or another to our leaving the Hydroponics Unit. I think the officers are convinced that sooner or later the Hydroponics set-up will collapse so it doesn’t matter much if they lose a few men.
		Guess that’s about all for now. Will let you know about new developments. So long, folks
		Love, 
			Dick

Fort Belvoir
Noon, Monday Nov 26 ‘45
Dear Folks:
		Still here but trying valiantly to get away and up to Fort Myer. We found out this morning that there were supposed to have been orders waiting for us transferring us to Myer when we arrived but as usual something went wrong somewhere and the orders are held up or lost somewhere along the line. I get so damn disgusted with the way things run in this Fool Army that I could scream. 
		While we were waiting around this morning we, on our own volition, got some more shots. I got three more and Larry got four – don’t know what effect they’ll have on us but so far we’re surviving. Suppose if we hadn’t taken it upon ourselves to get this matter out of the way, they’d have forgotten all about it and then we’d have been held up somewhere else.
		We haven’t been able to find out yet from anyone how much clothing etc. we’re going to be able to take with us, and we don’t know who is supposed to issue it. 
		Our trip from Michigan wasn’t bad at all. We stayed just east of Pittsburgh Saturday night! Used the Pennsylvania Turnpike to get across the worst of the hills yesterday and arrived in Washington about 3 oclock. Went directly to the Miller’s and they received us very cordially. Ralph had sent us a very nice post card to Ypsi inviting us to stay with them.
		Sherm Neuschel is back from Japan and we’re going to see them tonight at the Millers – will be glad to talk to Sherm. The Survey wants him to turn right around and go back to Japan on this natural resources survey which they’re conducting. Don’t think he wants to go very badly though! Virginia would probably go too if he does go!
		Well the snow you had in Lawton didn’t spread very far. Dad Neir said there was only a couple of inches at the Lake and there is no snow at all this side of the mountains. However I guess that streets had been slippery in Pittsburgh Saturday morning because that night people were driving around with chains on. We had an awful nice time at the farm – am always sorry we have to leave so soon but perhaps one day we can stay for a long time. This business can’t last forever.
		Will close now and will write again just as soon as I have any more news.
		Don’t worry now
				Love,
					Dick

Pentagon Bldg
Thurs, November 29, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad,
			Still here – this is the dope at the moment. We’re scheduled to leave Washington by train December 5 and will depart by plane for Tokyo on the 9th! We’re a little disappointed because we had thought we would fly from here to the coast too and I was certainly looking forward to seeing the country from the air — but it looks like the train at the moment!
			So you see there was no hurry to get us back so quickly from our furlough after all. Sorta makes a person mad! We are still stationed at Ft. Belvoir, but they put us on a three day pass from there to come up here to work. The orders transferring us from there to Ft. Myer are working their way through channels but no telling how long it will take for them to make it. We think we’ll probably get the weekend off so now Marian and I are trying to decide what to do. She was going to leave tomorrow morning, but if she would wait until tomorrow night I could leave with her and drive her all the way to Granville by Saturday night and then come back on the train. What to do?
			We have spent the last three days here at the Pentagon familiarizing ourselves with the various procedures involved in marking maps. Yesterday we visited the pig plant where the work of preparing the copy and printing the maps is actually done – it was a very interesting day.
			Marian and I visited the Neuschels last night. Sherm is going back to Japan after Christmas and Virginia is going with him – they’re quite excited about it!
			Yesterday Marian managed to get the car into a garage to have the brakes relined – it’s to be finished today! That’ll be a good job done. Had a flat tire too the other day – a slow leak again.
			We’re taking the Millers out to dinner tonight – it’s little enough to do for them – they’ve certainly been nice to us!
			Oh yes, Prof Wright is going to let me borrow the camera to take along. It takes colored pictures and film is quite available. I’m glad about it! He’s sending it to me here in Washington ℅ Neuschel’s.
			That’s all for now I guess
						Love,
							Dick

Tues, December 4, 1945
Pentagon Bldg.
Dear Mother and Dad,
			Still here – sitting around waiting to find out when our train leaves for San Francisco. It seems to Larry and me that they’ve waited a little long to make the reservations, but I suppose they know what they’re doing. It will probably work out that we’ll not get to California by the 9th but apparently that doesn’t matter too much They don’t assign us to a plane definitely until we’re actually on the spot and have undergone the necessary processing – processing which involves the weight of our baggage, something regarding rules and regulations while in flight etc. etc.
			I’m still staying at the Millers – they’re kind enough to put up with me. Just had a thought – do you suppose Mother you could pack three or four jars of Jams and Jellies in a small box and send it to them. I think they’d enjoy them a lot; I’ve noticed they have jelly almost every morning and it’s “store” stuff. Their address is: 1308 35th St N.W.
 [arrow pointing above first line of address] Mr + Mrs Ralph L. Miller
Washington, D.C. [dotted box drawn around entire address]
			I’d certainly appreciate your doing this for me!
			Well we had a quick trip from here to Ohio this past weekend. The roads were fine except for about 40 miles as we crossed the highest parts of the plateau. We got in to Granville about 5:30 p.m. Saturday evening and got a room at the Inn so that we could be alone and our own bosses. We visited with the Felts on Saturday night. We both woke up Sunday morning feeling very punk but managed to recover in time to go to church. Visited the Steckles for a couple hours Sunday afternoon then installed Marian at Lousie Wrights. My train left Newark at 6:05 and was on time – it was certainly pretty hard to say goodbye – I felt very sorry for Marian but she was very brave about it – what a marvelous person she is. At Pittsburgh I had to change trains and I managed to obtain an upper berth into Washington – it was expensive but well worth it. Train was on time Monday morning in Washington and Larry and I made connections and got down to Belvoir at 9:10.
			After prodigious effort involving much red tape we managed to get away from Belvoir by nightfall yesterday (Monday) This morning we reported in at Ft. Myer and at the same time we reported in we began to “clear” the place. It’s all very confusing to everyone concerned. They did manage to pay us though and that pleased me. While I’m thinking of it they took no bond out for November (it simplified things to do it that way) so one will not be coming along for that month!
			The two captains who are going with us to Japan reported in today none the worse for their experience of being forced down in Missouri.
			As yet we do not know our overseas address. They still don’t know the war is over and keep it secret until we leave!
			No word either concerning the promised promotions However once we are settled I’m confident they’ll try to do something about it.
			Guess that’s the news for the moment.
			Oh, yes, the camera arrived from Granville so I ought to have some pictures of our adventures.
			So long, folks, write often when you finally get my address.
										Love,
											Dick


230th day in the Army [box drawn around]			           	Sat. forenoon Dec. 8, 1945
									E. of Ogden, Utah
Dear Folks:
		Heading west across the snowy landscape of far western Wyoming. This is the first time I’ve seen this country in the winter and it certainly has a different and very spectacular type of beauty. We have seen quite a few sheep grazing but what they’re eating other than snowballs is a mystery to me. 
		Our train is about 2½  hours late. It left Chicago 2 hours late so we’re not doing as badly as it sounds. I’ve not been, however, so very favorably impressed with the Union Pacific railroad – at least not by this train which is called “the Challenger”. Just a few minutes ago a Greyhound bus went past us on the highway along side – this in spite of the fact that the road appears to be quite slippery.
		Looks now as though we’ll arrive at San Francisco about noon tomorrow. Hamilton Field is about 50 miles out of the city.
		Neither of our Captains is now with us. We left one in Washington and the other in Chicago. The latter decided to stay over until Friday in Chicago so that he could see his girl friend who was coming down from St. Paul. He’s doing it very unofficially so we’ll sorta have to “cover up” for him!
		I slept very well Thursday night but last night it was colder than the dickens and two blankets weren’t enough. The heat from the steam pipes just doesn’t get up to the upper berths! Its real warm in the car now though!
		Sorta funny to look out at all this snow and to think that before the week ahead is over we’ll be in Hawaii.
		Larry Craig happened to see one of the fellows from the Wright Field hydroponics unit in Chicago on Thursday. He told Larry that the whole hydroponics program has folded up! So now we wonder what would have happened to us had we stayed at Wright Field. But then that’s over and there’s no use even guessing!
		After you have my address write often. Send John’s address too will you?
		Getting close to Ogden will mail this there!
		So long, Folks
							Love,
Don’t work too hard at						Dick
that trimming, Dad!

Hamilton Field, Calif
Thurs. Dec 13, 1945
Dear Folks:
		Still haven’t taken off and it looks like we will not be until about next Monday. The three of us and one of the Captains are all ready to go but the other Captain who arrived Tuesday afternoon had not had all the necessary shots and he can’t finish them up until Monday.
		Larry and I have been staying with Ed. and his wife at the home of some friends of theirs down near Palo Alto (50 miles from the Field). And what a home it is – a house in about the 25000 dollar class I’d guess, four acres of beautifully landscaped ground, a Japanese house man and a Japanese gardener etc. etc. And the funny part is we’re here all alone – the people who own the house live during the winter in San Francisco in an apartment. What a life!
		We’ve had a chance to look around San Francisco quite a bit. Had dinner at fishermans wharf Tues. nite. We don’t have to go out to the field today – will probably go in to Palo Alto and visit the Stanford University campus.
		If you send mail to me at A.P.O. 4260 San Francisco, California it will reach me. That however is not our permanent A.P.O. number – we’ll not know it until we reach Tokyo. A six cent airmail stamp is all that is needed for A.P.O. mail.
		That’s all for the moment.
Send John’s address!							Love,
										Dick

Monday Afternoon
Dec 17, 1945
Dear Folks:
		Still here and it looks very much as though we may be here for 2 or 3 days yet! The one Captain finally got his medical clearance this morning but now there is no plane available. All the planes have been loaded down with #1 priority cargo and passengers and we’re travelling on a #3 priority. I hardly dare think of the fact that they limited our furloughs to ten days because there was such a need for haste!
		Ed Ekland’s wife left yesterday evening for Los Angeles so now we’re without an automobile. We’ll have to stick around the field pretty closely.
		We’ve certainly been having nice weather though. Yesterday and today are both sunny and bright – temperatures in the 50ties! Paper tells us today that winter has really come your way.
		I sent a package off by express to the farm for Marian today – hope it arrives by Christmas. Suppose I should have gotten it off sooner! I’m sorry her vacation will be so short. Got some letters from her today – she sounds as though she’s enjoying her work. Hope it is true!
		A lot of U.S.O. CampShow people have just gotten aboard a plane here – have certainly seen a lot of them since we’ve been hanging around here – they don’t look very much like “show people” should look!
		Not much else to write I guess. If I hear when we’re leaving I’ll send a night letter to Marian an have her call you.
						So long, Folks
								Love
									Dick

244th day [box around] 8 months in [box around]		                  Hamilton Field, California
December 22, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad,
			Well here we sit and it looks more and more like we’ll be a sittin’ for a while yet. We found out yesterday that for some reason the theatre command in Japan has stopped all movement of #3 priority passengers – that’s us!! In fact for a while no one was moving to Japan not even #1 passengers. As I say no reason is given for their action. So all we can do is wait until a telegram comes from the theatre releasing us – when that happens we’ll move out quickly because we’re pretty well toward the top of the #3 list!
			We haven’t been doing much this week. We were put to work on Wednesday helping with some filing in one of the offices here at the terminal. There’s not enough work to keep us very busy so we have time for letter writing etc. Suppose we might as well have something to keep us occupied – but they’ve not put the Captains to work and they – the Captains – have really been dodging adroitly. It’s the same old story – the gravy goes to the officers or so it seems!
			By the time this reaches you Christmas will be over. I’m sorry Marian had such a short vacation. I can’t understand why the President didn’t at least give them the day after Christmas off so that the people who went visiting would not have to leave to return on Christmas day. I think President Brown feels that the faculty at Denison is a little sensitive about the rising costs of administration during the past few years and if he allowed the administrative personnel too much time off it would look more and more as though quite so many were not needed! I hope, Mother, that your gift to Marian and mine were not the same. I meant to write to you to tell you I had in mind getting her a cosmetic kit, but by the time I had actually decided to buy it, it was too late to let you know. I’m wondering if mine arrived on time I sent it from here via express last Monday – but with rail transportation as badly snagged as it is I’m very much afraid that it will not have arrived. If it does come too late – you’ll send it on to Marian, won’t you?
			We have not decided what we will do if we’re here for Christmas – probably nothing different than usual. This will just have to be one Christmas that doesn’t count. Certainly hope that we can make up for it next year.
			Boy, we’ve certainly had a couple of rainy days here – it looks as though it wants to clear up today but on Thursday and Friday it really came down. From what I read in the papers you’ve been having a bit of weather yourself.
			By the way I got your letter and was glad to have it. Hope that John is able to make it down on Christmas for a little while. I think he’s wise to have a lawyer – those divorces can be tricky affairs.
***
			Later now – well it decided it wanted to rain some more and believe me it’s really coming down.
			I just finished writing a letter to John – thought he might like to hear what’s been happening to me after being in on the beginning of the story at Thanksgiving.
			So you discovered some “Southern Comfort” did you, Dad? What do you think of it? Sorta always went up my nose!
			Too bad about John Robinson but it had to come sooner or later – he had a good long life! Bet it was a big funeral Clip the story out of the Lawton Leader and send it to me. Did you put that story in about me?
			Mother, I certainly appreciate your sending the jelly to the Millers in Washington and there was no hurry about it at all. They’ll enjoy it I know.
			Guess I’m about at the end of my rope for this time.
			An announcement just came over the loud speaker wanting someone to share a roommate on a pullman leaving tonight for Chicago – wow would I like to be the one.
								So long now, Folks
Happiest of New Years!							Love
											Dick

Monday Morning, Dec. 24, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad:
			
			There is no work to do right at the moment around the office where we do our filing so I’m going to borrow a typewriter and pound out a few lines to you folks.

			It’s raining here again this morning. We had a few hours of sunny weather yesterday, but apparently it was too good to last. However, this is the season of the year when rain is to be expected in the San Francisco vicinity. The moisture is turning the grass nice and green and the hills which rise in back of the airport are becoming more and more attractive.

			One reason for writing this letter is to tell you that yesterday I packed a box and sent it off to you express collect. I think however you’ll agree with me when you see the contents that the effort and cost were worthwhile. You see the barracks in which we are living is inhabited mostly by fellows who are just passing through here on their way to their separation centers. The boys don’t much care what happens to their clothes and equipment and they have a tendency to throw at lot of it away. Well, yesterday a bunch of them moved out and after they had left I did a little “salvaging”. My haul netted me two Army blankets, a couple of pairs of trousers, a couple of towels, a pistol belt, a canteen cover and canteen – and a few other items as you shall see when you open the box. Mother, I’d appreciate it a lot if you’s wash out the stuff which is washable (can you do the blankets?) and stow it away with the rest of our junk. Use the blankets of course if you want to! Perhaps I’m silly to mess around with the stuff and to ask you to mess around with it too, but it’s stuff we’ll be able to use sometime on camping trips or field trips. And yesterday I had nothing else to do anyway!

			It was awful nice to hear your voice yesterday, Mother. That call certainly went through in a hurry – it took less than five minutes. Surprised me because Larry Craig had to wait almost two hours to get a call through to New York City! I had called Ypsi earlier thinking that Marian would be there. I had figured that she’d probably come out to the farm today – (Monday) and would not be going back to Ypsi. I thought she had to be back at work on Wednesday. Glad she didn’t have to, however, because by going back to Ypsi she was able to avoid the long farm-to-Granville drive. With public transportation lines as badly jammed as they are I’m certainly glad we hung onto George – Marian seems to have a big time with him! Isn’t the train passenger jam awful? I read about the trouble in Chicago and suppose you have read how terrible it is here. There are fellows sitting on ships in SanFrancisco Bay who have been there for three or four days since arriving home and yet their separation centers may be no farther away than LosAngeles. More of the Army’s stupidity – they made all sorts of provision to bring them across the ocean and forgot, apparently, all about the fact that they’d have to get them away from the port where they landed! 

As you notice from the difference in blackness of letters above I’ve had to change typewriters. One of the secretaries wanted to use the one I was using!

			Golly, I was glad to hear that John was able to get down to the farm for Christmas – at least I hope he was able to stay.

			We still don’t know when we’re going to be able to get away from here. Yesterday though we did find out that number three priority people can leave if there is room for them on any of the planes leaving – for the last few days we would not have been allowed to leave even if there had been room – for some reason the theatre command had prohibited their movement of #3s Yesterday some of the U.S. Geological Survey people arrived here to await shipment – they’re on a number three priority also. They grew a little discouraged when we told them we had been waiting here for two weeks. I think, however, we’re quite apt to get away within the next two or three days (How many times previously have it said that) because one of the things which was holding us up was the fact that they were shipping a lot of mail which travels on a number one priority. Now that Christmas is almost over the mail should diminish in quantity. Guess I told you that another thing which was in our way was a great number of U.S.C. show people. Haven’t seen as many of them around these past couple of days!

			Our Captains have thought of trying to get us a better priority, but by the time they could arrange for it we’ll probably be shipped out. To get a better priority requires telegraphing Washington who in turn must cable the theatre then the theatre cables Washington and Washington telegraphing us – you can readily understand why that procedure would take a long time.

			We’ve been talking to some of the fellows who have come from Tokyo and from what they tell us we whould be quite comfortable once we arrive there. They say that the enlisted men attached to Headquarters are well housed and very well fed. According to one fellow’s story they even have Japanese servants waiting on tables in the mess hall. Hope the stories are true, but we’re taking the pessimistic view and not building our hopes too high. Am glad we’re not going to Manila – from what we hear that’s just about the worst place in the world! Guess the Japanese completely wrecked that city and the Filipinos are not doing very much to try to get it back in shape.

			Although we’ve not seen very much of the Captains these past few days, we think they are “allright” guys and we should have a lot of fun with them. We think they’ll stick up for us and that’s pretty important because an officer can do quite a lot for a person. We’re quite confident that they’ll do all they possibly can to get a promotion for us – hope so anyway!

			Am at a loss to know what to write now so guess I’ll close for this time. Be on the look out for the express package which should be getting there in a week or ten days, and thanks for taking care of the contents for me.

			Write often – only one letter since I’ve been here-that’s not enough!

			Happy New Year!				Love,
										Dick

Harmon Field, I. of Guam
Monday Dec 31, 1945
Dear Mother and Dad:
			Well we’re this far - and when I stop to think of it “this far” is a really long ways. I can’t remember when last I wrote to you -did I write from Hawaii? But at any rate here’s how we’re been travelling.
Left Hamilton Field
Wednesday Dec. 26
2.00 p.m.
San Francisco time
actual flying time 14 hrs 30 min
Arrived Hickam Field, Hawaii
Thursday Dec. 27
2:00 a.m.
Honolulu time
Left Hickam Field
Friday Dec. 28
2:45 a.m.
     “           “
flying time 11 hrs 15 min
Arrived Kwajalein
Saturday Dec. 29
12:30 p.m. 
Kwajalein time
Left Kwajalein
Saturday Dec. 29
12:45 p.m.
     “          “
flying time 8 hrs 15 min
Arrived Guam
Saturday Dec. 29
9:00 p.m.
Guam time








Total: 34 hours
Total miles: 6400 approx.

[On the left side of the page in the margin, Mahard wrote “Crossed international date line automatically change to same time next day” next to the dotted line between “Left Hickam Field” and “Arrived Kwajalein”]

			The above is a record of the trip to here; the last leg now is from here to Tokyo a distance of 1580 miles which will take us 8 hrs. That means then the total trip will require 42 hours of flying time and the distance travelled will be 7980 miles!
			We didn’t expect to be here today – fully expected to leave last night. In fact three of our party of five did leave – Larry Craig and I were left behind. It seems there wasn’t room on last night’s plane for all of us and our name happened to be at the bottom of the list – and so we were cut off. It looks now as though we’ll get away tonight around midnight.
			Yesterday we had an interesting day looking around this island which is of course our greatest base in this far western Pacific area. You can’t possibly imagine the tremendous quantity of equipment which there is at this place nor could you imagine without seeing it how greatly the face of the island has been changed by building airports and roads – many of them multiple lane highways – and barracks and docks etc. etc. Believe me it’s a tax payer’s nightmare!
			Dad, I’m enclosing a little souvenir I picked up yesterday. You may have thought that this particular plant grew only in Van Buren Co. Mich. but you see it is not so. I could have plucked the same souvenir in Hawaii or even on remote Kwajalein!
			We of course have been having a very interesting time but I as yet can’t make it seem real. Can’t imagine being so far from home and can’t believe we’re actually seeing the places we’ve read about so frequently. Yesterday we saw the little native village of Agaña where a lot of fighting took place when our forces recaptured this island from the Japs. It’s hard to believe that the ruined church and houses and other buildings had once been intact and had been destroyed by shell fire from naval guns. Hard to believe that scars along the rock wall rising in back of the village were made by exploding shells when our forces were trying to get Jap snipers who had “holed up” in caves.
			Am not going to start another page right now. Marian will send you my letters with all the details.
Jan 1, 1946
			So Happy New Year, folks – it’ll be three o’clock in the afternoon here when you hear the whistles blow where you are!
So long,		
	Love		
Dick	
December 26, 1945
9:50 p.m. San Francisco time
Dear Mother and Dad,
		We’re probably about 1500 miles out from SanFrancisco and are at an elevation 8000 feet. It’s simply impossible to make it seem real. A person tends to look out the windows every now and then and expects to see houses and gas stations and lights of passing cars – instead only the stars gleam and from where I sit I can see the dull red glow of the hot exhaust stack of one of the engines – it’s proper for it to be red hot I understand so don’t worry.
		What a trip this has been so far! We took off at 2:00 p.m. exactly. For two or three hours there were clouds above and below us but as I say, the stars are gleaming now. We should arrive at Hickam Field (5 miles from Honolulu) about four oclock tomorrow morning (six hours from now) but that will be 1:30 a.m. Honolulu time (7:00 a.m. your time). As we understand it our route from Hickam Field is to Johnston Island, Kwajalein atoll. (in the Marshalls), Guam, Manila, Okinawa, Tokyo. Yes, we’re really going the long way round – this pleases because we’ll have a chance to see a lot more than if we went from Hickam to Johnston to Wake to Marcus to Japan! A plane going that way is about an hour behind us but of course they’ll bet us there by a couple of days. Perhaps more because we’re apt to be held over for a few hours at our various stops!
		This plane called a C54-4 engines is really something. The cabin has 40 seats (that makes the interior considerably larger than the inside of a Greyhound bus – it’s not as large a place, however, as the one we went in at Wright Field) There are only 16 passengers aboard – there are 9 crew members 3 pilots, a radio man, a navigator, an engineer, and 3 flight clerks (one is a WAC). 3 members are extra – they’re just making the trip for practice.
		We had a very nice hot dinner about six o’clock served to us in our seats by the flight clerks. It was really something. 
		Riding the plane is very smooth. Because there is no jerking, reading and writing is very much easier than on a train. There isn’t too much noise – I wouldn’t say it is quiet though and you can feel the vibration when you lean on the seat arm.
		I’ve written a long letter to Marian which she’ll send to you describing the trip in great detail so I’ll not write it all over again.
		By the way I sent another box of “loot” off to you today just before we left so be on the lookout for it.
		Well we’re glad to be on our way at last and the trip has been so exciting so far that we haven’t become fully aware that we’ve really left the country (good old U.S.A.) for no telling how long. That very sobering realization will come to us later without a doubt. But what lies ahead should really be very interesting and it will all be a very valuable experience.
		I had a very nice Christmas yesterday thanks to these two Denison “kids”. They treated me royally and we had a great time talking things over. They even fixed up a Christmas sock for me – so old Santa found me after all! They’ve had a hard time finding any friends who are very much to their liking so I really think they were just about as happy to have me there as I was to be there. They’re really both swell people! I’m sorry I didn’t know sooner that they were at the field!
		And now I must write to the Harveys a “bread and butter” letter so I can mail it at Hickam.
		Goodnight, Mother and Dad – please don’t worry about me any more than you can help. I’ll be all right – I’m sure I will.
										Love,
	Will send my address as quickly as I can!					Dick
