

Tokyo, Japan
257th day 							January 4, 1946

Dear Mother and Dad,
			First day at work at the office and since no one has given me any work to do I’ll look busy by writing this letter.

			Yes, here we are at long last. We arrived Tuesday morning; but because that was a holiday, we were not able to get settled down. We were assigned a temporary place to sleep for Tuesday night. Wednesday morning we all got together and found out pretty well what the dope was. Our two captains are not going to be able to establish their office for about three weeks, meanwhile the three of us are going to assist in the work of this office which is doing now about the same kind of work we’re going to be doing later. Essentially our job is to expedite in any way we can the work which is going forward on this large mapping project. The actual work on the mapping is just beginning that means that the Air Corps is taking a few pictures and some unit of the Corps of Engineers is out in the field beginning to do some surveying which is necessary before the maps can be made.

			We’re pretty well settled in the building where we’re to live. It’s called the Finance Building (it was formerly the headquarters of the Department of Finance of the Japanese Government). It’s a very large place, is five stories high and covers a square block. I have no notion how many men live in the place but there must be three or four thousand. At the moment Larry and I are living in a huge room which must contain about forty beds. Ed, who left Guam a day before we did and hence got here Dec. 31, obtained a bed in a smaller room. Some of the fellows in his room are leaving and we may be able to move in there – it would be a little quieter, but as it happens it’s not so warm.

		As regards eating – we eat in a building which is called the Dai Ichi Building. It is the nicest building in Tokyo and the one in which General MacArthur has his headquarters. It was formerly a bank and also contained the offices of a large insurance company. This company had a very excellent cafeteria for its employees on the seventh floor of the building (the top floor) and that’s where we eat. The food so far has been marvelous!! It is well cooked (by Japanese supervised by G.I. cooks), is abundant, and there is variety to the menus. Its so much better than I ever dreamed it would be that I simply can’t get over it. I keep thinking that the food will get poorer, but so far it hasn’t and the fellows say it has been this good all along. So far the only thing I’ve missed in our diet is such items as lettuce and celery – fresh vegetables. We have a lot of fruit – almost than we can eat. There is no fresh milk, of course. If the food keeps up this way I’m going to get to be a big boy I’m afraid!

		As regards our office – it’s located on the fifth floor of a building called the Forestry Building. Yes, it was formerly occupied by the Department of Forestry of the Japanese Government. The office is nice, there are good wooden desks and tables and bookcases and cabinets etc. just as there would be in any office in the United States. The typewriters of course are ones which the Army brought with them – this one I’m using for example came along with the fellows in this office all the way from New Guinea. Incidentally, the men who are over here with the U.S. Geological Survey have their offices in this building too (on the second floor). Suppose that’s where Sherm and Virginia Neuschel will have their headquarters when they arrive – We haven’t seen much of the U.S.G.S. personnel as yet, but probably will as soon as things get settled down in a little bit.
			Of course you’re wondering about the city and the signs of the bombing which are to be seen. Well, you can’t imagine how awful it is nor can I describe it to you so that you can get anywhere near the correct picture – you just have to see if to know what it’s like. However, if you imagine about ten thousand lots looking like the J.R. Jones corner in Kalamazoo, you’ll have some notion. We drove through the city for about ten miles coming in from the airport last Tuesday and on both sides of the street and as far back from the street as a person could see at least five sixths of the buildings are gone – they’re not just burned out, they’re burned up entirely! There are hundreds and hundreds of burned up automobiles to be seen, hundreds and hundreds of burned up bicycles, scores and scores of burned buses, and tens and tens of burned streetcars. Factories have been burned down and the machinery sets there rusting. One wonders where all the people have gone who formerly lived in these burned out districts – I can’t figure out where they did go. Some have salvaged bits of sheet metal and have built shacks for themselves, others have crowded into the few remaining buildings, some are living huddled under the tracks of the elevated railway lines, but this accounts for only a few relatively speaking. Great numbers of them must have moved out into the country. We saw a few farm dwellings coming in from the airport and they did appear to be very crowded establishments, but, of course, perhaps they were that way before the war. In one of the rooms over at the building where we live the fellows have “adopted” a little Japanese boy about six years old. Guess he doesn’t have any family at all any longer, but he seems quite content – of course he should be content, he’s lucky – he’s well fed and warm and that’s more than most of the Japanese can say.

			Right here in the downtown section where the buildings were of brick and stone and cement and steel,they’ve held up a little better. But even so, many more than half of them are burned out. Imagine six or eight department stores caved in. Along the main shopping street of Tokyo which is called the Ginza, the merchants are beginning to try to get back in business – they’re repairing their old buildings if they’re repairable or they’re building new ones. However, the new ones are just little one story frame structure. It’s very interesting to see the carpenters at work – they mortise the beams together and fasten them with pegs just as barns were built in the midwest of the U.S. a hundred years ago. It’s possible to examine the whole framework of a small building and not see over ten or a dozen miles! Don’t know whether they build this way because they have no nails or because that’s the way they’ve always built their buildings. They certainly can work wood beautifully! The wood they’re using at the present time is larger cedar.

			General MacArthur has his headquarters in the Dai Ichi building (the one where we eat) which is right next to the building where we have our office. We have not seen him yet, but have seen his limousine a couple of times out front waiting for him to come out – a crowd of Japanese and soldiers always gathers to catch a glimpse of him. Believe me you get the impression that he’s really the boss around here!

			We’ve just returned from lunch. About all I did all morning was work on this letter; did spend about an hour doing some other typing for the Sergeant in charge of the office. Think I’ll call this all for now, however. Below I’ve written out my correct address – it’s a whopper, isn’t it. I asked Marian to type it on some envelopes for you, perhaps she has done so by now. We hear that it takes mail about ten days to reach the states from here and vice versa. Takes packages, we understand, anywhere from four weeks to six weeks!

									So long, Folks, write often
Pvt. Richard H. Mahard, 35985568
Intel Div, OCE, GHQ, AFPAC
Advance Echelon, Tokyo, Japan						Love,
A P O 500, San Francisco, California							Dick


[Arrow pointing to the second line of the address]
Intelligence Division, Office Chief of Engineers, General Headquarters Army Forces of the Pacific

Tokyo, Japan
January 8, 1946 (Tues.)
Dear Mother and Dad,

			Have I explained to you about the difference in time between where you are and here? Well, we’re 14 hours ahead of you. For example it’s eleven o’clock a.m. Tuesday here – that makes it nine o’clock p.m. Monday in Michigan. You’re probably just going to bed Monday night and here we have half a day’s work done on Tuesday! Seems funny doesn’t it?

			Things go on here in a rather unexciting fashion. We’re pretty well settled into the routine. We go to bed pretty early and I personally get up pretty early. I arise at six o’clock and go down to the basement of the building where we live (our room is on the 4th floor) where the showers are located and draw myself a steel helmet full of hot water. (There’s no hot water anywhere in the building except in the basement and oftentimes even that supply is exhausted.) I carry the helmet full of water to a nearby lavatory where there is a mirror and do my shaving. After shaving tooth brushing is in order – this must be done using water from my canteen. We’re not supposed to drink the water from the taps of the building and some of us think we ought not therefore use it to brush our teeth. The water to fill our canteens is especially purified and is stored in large canvas bags called “Lister Bags” which hang from tripods along the corridors of our building. 

			By the time I finish shaving it’s a little after 6:30 usually and I wake up Larry and Ed. By seven o’clock we’ve finished dressing and have made our beds and swept up the room a little bit (we’re not required to have everything in apple pie order the way we were during basic training, but we’re supposed to keep things reasonably neat). We catch the bus from the Finance Building where we live to the Forestry Building where we work, come up stairs to the office to pick up our cup and silverware and the go back downstairs and go next door to the DaiIchi Building where we eat. We usually arrive at the cafeteria before 7:30 so we have a little over ½ hour to eat breakfast before reporting for work at 8:00 or a little after.

			Our meals continue to be very good. Last night we had steak, mashed potatoes and gravy, asparagus, parker house rolls with gobs of butter, chocolate cake, coffee. They continue to have a big bin of Washington State apples and a bin of local Japanese tangerines and one can help himself to these and take all he wants. I’m glad we have the apples – they help make up for the one lack in the menu – fresh green vegetables such as lettuce and celery!

			The weather has been good. Every day since we’ve arrived has been sunny except this past Sunday. It is quite cold – temperatures hover near the freezing mark. How some of the people stand the cold protected no better than they are is beyond me. Last Sunday we went for a long walk and we saw quite a few people wearing their clog-like shoes without any stockings of any sort and we saw one little boy about three who was playing in the street without any shoes or stockings at all – at the same time we were just about freezing ourselves. Yesterday I went with one of the fellows to the main postoffice here in Japan – the place was entirely filled with blue smoke from numerous little wood fires which the employees keep burning in little clay pots to keep their hands warm. There is no other heat in the building.

			I think I’ve forgotten to say in any of my letters that the automobile traffic here all moves on the left hand side of the street. It’s very difficult to grow accustomed to it – when one starts to walk across a street, he must first look to the right instead of the left. It’s a darn wonder that the Americans haven’t all been hit! One also sees quite a lot of Japanese automobiles which run on the gas generated in a charcoal burner. It’s very strange to see them going down the street with steam issuing from the complicated looking apparatus on the back end of the vehicle! 

			On Sunday we encountered for the first time the famous “honey-bucket” man of Japan. He’s the fellow who goes around each day with a cart loaded with wooden buckets of about ten gallon size into which he dumps the waste material from the Japanese equivalent of our bathrooms. He then hauls his load out into the country and it is used for fertilizer. Dad, if you think that horse manure makes your grapes grow, you ought to try some of that stuff. Wow! To get to the leeward of one of those loads of buckets is almost a guarantee that you’ll have the tissues in your nose burned out. How the fellow who hauls the load around (usually by hand – sometimes he has a horse) can stand it is beyond me!

			Yesterday we made some inquiries downstairs in the geology section to see what the possibilities were that we could transfer to that work. When we walked in the office they already knew our story – that is, they knew that we were here in Tokyo and they were more or less expecting us to drop in. The man we talked to was Tom Hendricks, the boss of the project, he said that they were very short of help and certainly would like it if we could be transferred to them. “No go”. The captains appreciated our position but said that right at the moment it was impossible for them to let us go. They did promise that sometime later after their work gets under way they may reconsider the proposition. I’m not as disappointed as the other fellows – especially Larry – because I’m not entirely certain I’d like the geology work any better than the work we’ll be doing for the Captains once we get started at it!

			We certainly are missing our mail. It’s hard to think that it may be several days yet before your letters will reach us. It takes mail just about ten days to make the trip. You should be receiving my address about the 9th or 10th and then it’ll take your letters ten days to get back here.

			Guess that’s about the story for this time. Be sure to write often after you get my address. It still doesn’t quite seem real that we’re here and are so far from home, but one day we’ll get back – wish I knew when!
									Much love,

										Dick
Sherm and Virginia Neuschel are not coming to Japan I guess. There is a regulation prohibiting man and wife combinations. Guess General MacArthur is the only one whose wife is allowed!

Tokyo, Japan		
Monday Morning	
January 14, 1946	
Dear Mother and Dad,

			I wanted you to have the story of our past week-end as soon as possible so I made a carbon copy of it for you – sent the original to Marian.

			We certainly had a good time and it was a very interesting experience. And the fact that it cost us nothing does not detract from the enjoyment of the week-end. Don’t worry about our selling the stuff to the Japanese. Yes, I suppose it’s a “black market” of sorts but actually it’s a harmless one and the authorities pay little attention to it. That is they pay no attention to it so long as the soldiers sell only things which they buy at the Post Exchanges. If the soldiers began to sell their equipment – that is their clothing etc. – that would be, and is, a different matter. We, of course, would not do anything like that!

			I thought you might like to show the enclosed story to Mr. Spicer – he might enjoy reading it. I don’t think the part about selling things would matter do you? You do as you please, of course! If you do show it to him, tell him I’m sorry I didn’t pay a little more to the sentence construction, grammer, punctuation, etc. I wrote it directly onto the sheet without making a first draft and I’m afraid it shows it!

			The Captains told us this morning that the Colonel who will be our boss has arrived and we’re to have a conference with him tomorrow morning. So we’ll probably know a little better where we stand at that time.

			We’re hoping that sometime this week we’ll begin to receive some mail and it certainly will be swell.

			Guess that’s about all for this time. Will write frequently. You do the same.

									Love,
										Dick

[Arrow drawn from paragraph beginning with “The Captains told us”] 
Just talked to the Captains again and they say that until after the first of the month we’ll just sit tight as we are.

Sunday, January 13, 1946
STORY OF A WEEK END AT ATAMI

	It began on Saturday afternoon at 4:30. We had obtained permission to leave the office a little early. We caught at train at the main Tokyo station at 4:40 which would take us to Atami which is a small resort city along the coast about 60 miles or so from Tokyo. There were five in our party – Larry, Ed, and myself and Bruce Hughes and another boy from the office named George Burridge. Bruise was the leader of the expedition; he had been to Atami twice before and early this past week he had written to reserve a room for us at the small hotel where he had previously stayed. 

	The train was very prompt in departing – it seems that that’s almost a fetish with Japanese trains – but it was very crowded. As soldiers in the U.S. Army we are entitled to travel free on trains so we had no problem of tickets. We at first tried to find seats in the “first-class” coach (it’s marked by a light blue band running the length of the car) but discovered it crowded and also quite undesirable because one of the toilets (the only toilet, I guess) had run over all over the floor and the smell was “out of this world”. We searched elsewhere for a seat, but the people were jammed in in a fashion which I really and truly think rivalled anything I’ve ever seen in a New York subway. Another opportunity remained for us and we took it – we went to the baggage car and found it unoccupied except for a small amount of express which we readily converted into make-shift seats. The baggage-men were entirely content to have us.

	The weather was cold and there was plenty of air in our car after we got to moving inasmuch as one of the doors on one side of the car was completely missing and the windows were broken out of the doors on the other side. We moved up toward the front of the car forward of the doors and it wasn’t so bad. Presently one of the baggagemen made us a handsome “presento”. He came out of his little compartment with a metal pail, about a gallon size, which was filled with beautifully glowing charcoal. We thanked him profusely and made a “presento” of candy and gum to him in return. We then all gathered around the fire, Bruce shed his jacket, we spread it over the fire and over our knees and kept very warm and comfortable throughout the journey!

	We were not alone in the car for very long. At a station about two or three stops from Tokyo a crowd of perhaps 25 or 30 Japanese simply overwhelmed the men who were loading some baggage and clambered aboard the car. You should have seen them – there was a very old lady with a very large and apparently heavy pack on her back, another younger woman with a child strapped to her back and a great bundle in her hand, there was a very dignified looking man of middle age and well-fitting but shabby clothes who was carrying a briefcase, also assorted discharged Japanese soldiers, small children, young girls, etc. These people, however, did not invade our end of the car – they huddled as far to the other end as was possible (it must have been very cold there) and watched us intently as we sat around our brazier laughing and talking.

	Our journey lasted about 2½ hours. There were numerous stops but actually the train travelled smoothly and swiftly; the railroad like most Japanese main lines is electrified. At Atami we had but a short walk from the station to the hotel. It was dark and we could see a little but we knew we were in hilly country, but the picturesqueness was not to be revealed to us ‘till morning.

	When we arrived at the hotel we entered a little lobby and here we removed our shoes! The floor was cold too and the slippers which were available were the Japanese type which depend up a sock with a split between the big and second toe consequently we had to remain stocking footed! We had a little difficulty getting the people to understand about our reservation because the owner was not around and personally my heart sank – I had visions of having to go back to Tokyo or having to look around for another place to stay. The owner – Mr. Takahashi finally appeared and after some discussion (he speaks English a little bit), he let us to our room.

	We had to cross a little court which was cobbled with tiny black pebbles but we didn’t walk on these Instead we walked on wooden slabs cut from the end of a large of log and embedded into the cobbling but projecting perhaps an inch above it. These slabs of course revealed the annular rings of the tree and were very highly polished because they are not stepped on except by feet clad in slippers or stockings. There was a little entry-way to pass through before entering the room itself – in this entry-way even slippers or shed before passing through sliding doors and into the room which was “carpeted” from wall to wall with a mat woven of a very fine stalks of straw. There must be some sort of padding beneath the straw mat also because it “gives” slightly when walked on.

	The only articles of furniture in the room were a large (about five feet in diameter) red lacquered table and two commode-like affairs with drawers and one with a mirror. In one corner was a bamboo frame screen-like apparatus with hooks for hanging our coats. The table was about twelve inches high and lying on the floor around it or pads about two feet square and two inches thick – these of course for “chairs”. Very soon after we arrived the maid appeared – she was dressed in quite a colorful kimono outfit such as the Japanese women wear. Bruce told her we wished to be served some “sukiyaki” and she said, “O.K. “ and departed. We made ready to take a bath.

Actually our room was provided with a private bath, but Mr. Takahashi apologized to us and said that there was no hot water and would be none until morning and would we mind using the “public” bath. So that’s what we did. We took off all our clothes except our underwear and donned of the kimonos which were provided. We crossed the little court again and entered another part of the building and went down stairs. We went into a little dressing room where there were flat woven baskets for our clothes. We noticed that some of the baskets were filled and we saw the owners when we opened a door and entered the bath itself. That is we saw the other people dimly through a thick cloud of steam which was rising from a tub, or shall I say tank, of water in one corner of the tiled room. The tub was oval in shape in about 7 feet long by four feet and about two feet deep. It was filled to the brim and the water was pouring over the edges and into a shallow trough and thence to a drain. Sitting around the floor of the room were some little wooden dishes or basins. One dipped a basin full of water but of out of the tub and sat down on a tiny wooden stool about six inches high and washed himself thoroughly – we provided our own soap and wash cloths. After washing, the water in the basin was poured over oneself and additional water was dipped from the tub to complete the rinsing. Then came time for the immersion! By the time we were ready to immerse ourselves the other people had been in the tub a couple or three at a time and were out again. So in we went and it was marvelous – you can’t imagine how glorious that hot, hot water felt after having been pretty thoroughly chilled by our trip

Three of us were sitting comfortably in the tub and more or less facing the door from the dressing room when in walked a Japanese woman and a little girl about four years old ready to take their bath! Oh! Did I forget to say that the bath was a public one for men and women as is the custom here! The woman was completely unconcerned and took no notice of us and began to be with the child and then herself. Meanwhile we tried, more or less successfully to be unnoticed too! When she had finished washing and bathing she came over to the tub lowered the little girl in and got in herself. She got in at the opposite end from where we were – but opposite ends of a seven foot tub are not far apart, are they? but at that end there were a couple of Japanese men who took no notice of her. Believe me it was a most peculiar experience as far as I’m concerned and yet strangely enough there didn’t seem to be anything very wrong with it.

When we finished our soaking – a person was tempted to stay in the hot water longer than he should – we climbed out and bravely, before going to the bathroom, took a cool shower. We got dressed then and went back to our room. I expected to be cold when we left the bath, but was not. I can’t get over how completely warm that bath made me and how I stayed warm in spite of the fact that our room was not heated in anyway (the outside temperature at Atami was perhaps 45 degrees!)

When we got back to the room the maid has been there and had placed a lacquered box-like affair in the center of the table, in a clay pot in the center of the box was ing a charcoal fire. She came in in a few minutes and placed a pottery bowl over this charcoal flame and began to prepare the sukiyaki. First she poured a sauce of some sort into the bowl and after it was very hot she added some strips of beef, some onions (they looked like very large green onions), some celery cabbage, and I guess that was about all. After this had simmered quite a long time, the stew was done. She dished it out to us on little dishes about the size of saucers and we ate it, with considerable difficulty, with chopsticks! The maid stayed right there and kept dishing the food out until it was all gone. The sukiyaki, although it certainly isn’t anything very elaborate, was very good. There wasn’t enough of it, however, to make us a full meal and we supplemented it with some good old fashioned Army ration beans which we had brought along with us and which they had warmed up for us! Ate the beans with chop sticks and that’s a pretty good trick!

After the meal the maid cleared the dishes and things away and we sat around and talked. It was soon bed time but before we climbed in we all decided to have another bath. There was no female present this time although just as we were leaving the dressing room one arrived and began to prepare to bathe.

While we were bathing, the maid had fixed our beds. They’re very simple affairs just two pads on the floor and kind of a sheet on them and two very think down or lamb’s wool filled comforters. Two of us had very strange pillows filled with hunks of some sort they were quite noisy and not very soft. The rest of us had to use the seat pads for pillows and they weren’t very satisfactory. I seem to be having pillow trouble over here. These people apparently don’t go in for soft headrests!

We all slept quite soundly until about eight o’clock and then Bruce got up and opened up our room. All along one side of the room and for about half the distance along the other there were sliding panels – the inner panels had glass panes in their upper half but the outer ones were intirely of wood. The outer ones were so arranged that they could be slid completely back and past one another and into a wall recess. It’s almost as though the wall of the house was removed. From the windows along one side of the room we could look right out over the city of Atami to the not so distant hills. It was a perfectly gran sight. The whole area of the city is hilly and the houses simply cling to the sides of the hills which drop right down to the sea. From our window we could see the ocean too wit the breakers rolling in.

The maid came in in a little while and we gave her some coffee which we had broug along to prepare for us. They also heated up some “ham, eggs, and potatoes” rations for us and we had these for breakfast. Also had some canned grapefruit and orange juice which we had brought.
[arrow drawn to “fig newtons”] they’re a great delicacy worth over two dollars per box!
Toward the middle of the morning Mr. Takahashi came in and we began to do business with him. Yousee we had brought along a good many things which he wanted to buy – such things as soap, candy bars, gum, canned juice, cigarettes, tobacco etc. While we bargained we drank together a pot of coffee and ate some fig newtons. For some reason, apparently to advise him, he had brought along his head maid (she was the one who prepared the sukiyaki for us the night before) You should have seen them go for the coffee especially after they added liberal amounts of canned cream and great quantities of sugar which we had brought!

When the bargaining was over we had all made enough profit on what we sold to enable us to pay our bill at the hotel. So this trip I’m describing cost us exactly nothing!

For dinner we ordered beef “steaky” which turned out to be very good indeed although there wasn’t much of it and we again had to supplement it with food we had brought along. Perhaps I should explain that one of the officers here at the office got the Army rations for us. The Corps of Engineers has a big supply which they use to feed their field parties.

Very soon after our noon meal we prepared to leave because we wanted to walk about the town a little bit before time to catch the train at 3:00. The town – and it’s little more than that – proved to be a very interesting place. Although picturesque is a trie word I think it’s more applicable to Atami than to any place I’ve ever seen. The streets are very narrow and they wind around this way and that way to surmount the hills. The houses, as I say, are perched on the hillsides and are quite exotic as far as their architecture is concerned. The trees are most frequently pines which often have very interesting peculiarities of shape. And now and then down a street or between the houses and past some trees, one sees the ocean. Far up on the hills above the town are also seen bits of terraced land where some farmer is fighting a difficult battle to make the steep hill side productive.

Just before boarding the train the five of us bought a little woven bamboo basket of tangerines which we enjoyed all the way home. As we rode along we saw the tangerines as well as oranges growing in great abundance because the country around Atami is quite productive of citrus fruit. It seems to me the climate is pretty severe for it to grow but I guess it can’t be because there the loaded trees were! For twenty miles or so north from Atami we were close to the sea and there were many beautiful views but I was equally fascinated by the nature of the agriculture which we saw being practiced. The terracing of some of the slopes was incredibly complex. In the valleys the flatter land was cut up into tiny fields often bordered by stone walls which looked like they must have been built centuries ago and tended since with loving care. Many men were at work in the fields “plowing” them with a tool which resembles a hoe but which has a blade perhaps twelve inches long. They chop away at the soft soil and turn it over in much the same way a gardener turns his soil with a spade.

It was still light enough when we reached the suburban areas of Yokohama to see the tremendous amount of destruction done by the bombing, I couldn’t help but think of how unfortuante the people of this area were compared to the people who live at Atami where there was no sign of war whatsoever.

Monday, January 21, 1946	
Tokyo, Japan			
Dear Mother and Dad,

			Tis Monday night here and another week has gotten underway. Things have pretty well settled down into a routine here. This past week I’ve been working in a different office. Have been working, as a matter of fact, for the Geologists down stairs. It’s really quite a coincidence – the fellow who was my immediate boss during that week I worked for the Geological Survey last April is the same man for whom I worked last week and for whom I’m working still at least until this Wednesday. This fellow’s name is Frank Whitmore. Last April he was in Washington in the Military Geology Unit – he has been over here for about four months I think. He was handed a job last week by the men who are running this mapping program – it involved selecting the beaches in Japan which in any future war (isn’t it disgusting to have to talk about the next war) would be the ones most useful in an invasion. Frank was pretty busy and asked for some help if any was available – one of the Captains told him about me and he said send him down. After he saw me he remembered me from last April – I was embarrassed because I did not remember him. (I think I only saw him a couple of times that week because I was working in another room from where he was) At any rate, he’s a very nice guy and he has put me to work on the beach problem and accepts my judgment as an equal – it’s been very nice. After we’ve selected the beaches, they’ll be photographed in quite great detail and the photos will be used in compiling maps and charts and will then be filed away in Washington for future reference.

It’s looking more and more as though the three of us will finally end up in the Geology Section here. Tom Hendricks who runs the outfit is very anxious to have us and the Colonel who is our boss is perfectly willing ot give us up when he can find some replacements for us. Both the Colonel and Tom Hendricks are seeking replacements – they’re going to be hard to find (typists for some reason are scarce in the Army) but sooner or later they ought to be able to manage it. Tom told me today that Larry Craig is more suited to do a certain job he has to do (making a geological map of Okinawa) than any man he has available in his section. Isn’t thata pretty mess – Larry’s the best man for the job, he’s anxious to do the job, and yet here he sits idle only three floors away!

I spent a very quiet day yesterday. I came down with quite a cold about the middle of last week and I thought to go galavanting around the country yesterday would not help it any – think it was a good idea to stay home because the cold is really a lot better today. Larry and Ed climbed aboard a train and went out to a small suburban city to look around; they got to talking to a couple of young boys who invited them to their house and Ed and Larry met the whole family – they had quite an adventure.

Hoping that this is the week when some mail will start coming through – it’s been a long time since I’ve had a letter believe me! We heard today though that a lot of planes have been grounded lately by bad weather and I also heard that the Air Corps has discharged so many of their mechanics that they’re having a difficult time keeping planes in the air. I personally wish they’d turn the job of carrying the mail over to one of the private companies who’d love to do the job. I figure you should have received my Tokyo address about the 11th or 12th and then allowing ten days back to here that brings it about the 21st or 22nd.

I suppose you’ll be telling me in a letter which may now be on its way the answer to this question, but I’m wondering if the boxes I sent from Hamilton Field ever reached you. Did you wash out the stuff, Mother? How did the blanket come out? I’m not exactly certain I’ll ever want to see an Army blanket after I get out of this organization, but I suppose I’ll be able to put up with them after a while.

What did you think of the cosmetic case I bought for Marian? I hope Mother that you hadn’t bought her one too. I forgot all about telling you when last I saw you that I thought that that’s what I’d get for her if I had a chance. Marian will like it I think! I’m awfully anxious to have your letters to hear about Christmas and everything. The last letter I received from Marian at Hamilton field was written on December 18th. I received one letter from you folks while we were there.

Our meals continue to be good. We ran out of butter for a couple of days this past week but we’re having it again in liberal quantities at present. I’m beginning to miss fresh salads and coffee with some fresh cream would taste marvelous. We saw in the Stars and Stripes the other day that several ice cream “plants” had reached Tokyo; when they get them set up we should have ice cream a little more frequently. We have it about twice a week now – it’s good but one can taste the condensed milk! Our living quarters are comfortable. We have plenty of heat now and the water’s usually hot when we want to take a shower although we have to walk a long ways from our room on the fourth floor to the basement to take it. The gang in our room is a pretty congenial bunch. We have a couple of new roommates who moved in this past week – they’re a couple of Japanese-Americans. Both are very quiet although one of them snores pretty loudly! I’m the official “alarm clock” for the room – don’t know why but I wake up every morning almost exactly at six, I get up at 6:15 and go for shaving. After I finish shaving I wake the rest of the boys up. We leave the barracks building at 7:15 and get over to breakfast about 7:30. That gives us time for a pretty leisurely breakfast – we read the morning edition of Stars and Stripes and report for work at 8:00.

Very slowly the citizens of Tokyo are beginning to clean up the rubble of their city and are beginning to repair a few buildings and build a few new ones – I think I described to you some of the new building which is going on. Almost all the structures are flimsy wooden ones. Some of the larger department stores are trying hard to replace the insides of their gutted buildings and get back into business because they could make some money selling to soldiers. In spite of this activity though the surface has scarcely been scratched – I would guess it will be fifty years or more before the scars of the war disappear from this city. Someone said there was a fire somewhere in the city tonight – quite a large one too, but it probably didn’t impress the people here to any extent when they compare it with the ones they must have had during the war. I simply can’t imagine what it must have been like. I was talking to a boy the other night who knows some people who were here during the bombing and they say it was pretty awful – especially on May 25, 1945 – that was the date of the worst raid of all. When the bombers came over and dropped their incendiaries there happened to be a violent windstorm raging in the city and the combination was terrible – the fires raged completely out of control for 14 hours. Just to mention March 25 to a resident of Tokyo makes him shudder I guess!

Well Larry and Ed and I have all been here at the office typing letters tonight, but now it’s past time to go home and to bed. So I’ll say goodnight. Write often, won;t you and tell me all about things with you and things on the farm. How often I think of you there and wish that Marian and I could be there with you from time to time – hope the day when we can do just that isn’t too far off.
							So long, now
						
								Much love,
							
									Dick 

Saturday, January 26, 1946	
Tokyo, Japan			
		279th day


Dear Mother and Dad,

			Saturday night is the loneliest night of the week! Yessir, seems that way tonight. There isn't even a movie to go to on this night for some reason. Will write this and then will probably go over to the “barracks”, take a shower if there happens to be some hot water and then read until time to go to sleep.

			We thought that we were going to get some time off this weekend to take a little trip which we had planned. We were going up to a place called Nikko. But this morning at the very last minute we had to change our plans because some work came in which we had to get done. Oh, I guess we could have taken off but it wouldn’t have been playing quite fair with the Captain who has been a straightshooter himself so far so we stayed here at the office. We figure that if we continue to play ball with him, he’ll do the same and it will be a lot more pleasant! 

			As a matter of fact this week the Army did come through! Just yesterday I typed up the letter which is to go to Washington requesting that we be promoted. Yessir, we’re all to be moved up from 7th graders to 5th graders. Our promotions vary just a little bit - I’m to be made a Corporal and Larry and Ed are going to be made T/5. We’ll all get exactly the same pay – it amounts to 79.20 a month – but I’ll actually “outrank” them just a little bit. I guess that it worked out that way because the “table of organization” of our outfit calls for it and I got the slightly higher grade because I’ve been in the Army a little longer than either of them. They both went in in July! I suppose it’ll take a month at least for the promotions to go through. But at any rate they’re started. 

			Got your first letter addressed here to Tokyo on Thursday the 24th; it was postmarked the 16th so you see it came through in a hurry. Actually that’s about two days better than we can reasonably expect. Ten days will be about the average amount of time. There was a time early this week when the mail was pretty fouled up. All the planes were grounded and we heard consistent rumors that some air mail was being sent out from here by ship. So if some letter sometime is delayed that will explain it.

			We have not yet received the mail which is being forwarded from APO 4260. We sent our address there just as soon as we arrived, but they probably haven’t gotten around to sending the mail on to us yet – it’ll be along one of these days.

			One thing in your letter sorta surprised me. I suppose you told me about June Travis in a letter I haven’t yet received because you seem to assume that I knew something was wrong with her – was it another miscarriage? If so, that’s too darn bad!

			I was very interested to hear that you have the attic all finished off – I’’ bet it really looks very nice. I’m sorry you had all that junk of ours to work around. You must have really had to play “checkers” with all those boxes! Would like to be able to think that I’ll be home in time to help you put the molding on. But I’m afraid it’ll not come to pass.

			Suppose you’ve been following the demobilization news with great interest. I’m not very certain I have any ideas on what Congress is going to do about the question. It’s a difficult thing to decide. There is no question but what we need occupation armies in Asia and in Europe but it would seem that those armies should be made up if possible of men who have volunteered for the job. The boys who have been forced in by the Selective Service law are never going to be content! They are saying that they’ll have all men with two years of service as of July 1 out by that date. I feel that they’ll lower the months of service more and more. I think it’ll finally get down to 18 months but I have no notion of how soon it’ll be. I’ll have in 18 months by next October 23rd. Even if I make it by then, it’ll be too late to start teaching next fall and that’s the thing which is driving me slightly batty! I’m thinking more and more that the fellows with children may make it out a little sooner – that’s the thing Larry and Ed are praying for! But if they do that – it’ll hurt my chances I think! But, I suppose that’s the way it ought to be (but I can’t quite feel good about it). As usual, the only thing which can be said is that we’ll just have to wait and see!

			Have done very little that was exciting this whole week long. Have gone on a couple of “window shopping” tours. Window shopping here involves mostly looking at what the street vendors have for sale, but that includes just about everything. I did make one purchase but you’ll have to keep quiet about it for a while yet. I bought Marian ten yards of quite nice white silk cloth (at least I hope it’s all silk) and I sent it to her the other day as a Valentine present. I sent it via first class mail so it ought to reach her around twenty days. I mailed the package last Monday January 21st! I’ve said nothing to her about it.

Was interested in the story of the Lemke’s. It’s a big change for them isn’t it? We’ll visit them sometime in California – how about it? It seems to me that they got a mighty handsome price for their home in Birmingham!

			I suppose that the Spicers are excited about going to California. I thought of Frank when I was there but couldn’t remember whether he was around San Francisco or Los Angeles. 

			You’re sure very prompt in paying your income tax. I have no notion how Marian and I stand in that income tax business. I think Marian knows about it though and will take care of it. Don’t think it will bother her very much because she can take me as an exemption! 

			I’m anxious to receive the letters from APO 4260 because they’re the ones which tell about your Christmas. Wonder what Christmas next year will bring forth.

			Well, the boys are about ready to leave for the “barracks” and I think I’ll go along with them. Want to buy some things at the P.X. before it closes.

			Will probably ass a note in the morning!

								Goodnight Folks (in spite of the fact that you’re probably just getting up at 6:00 a.m. Saturday morning) It’s 8:00 p.m. here)

Love,

	Dick



Tuesday Feb 5, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad,
		All is confusion here this morning. This past week end we established our own office in a different building from the one we’ve been hanging out in. The O.C.E. office also moved to this new building and we got in on that work. The new office is O.K. except that there is no heat in the building! Right now my hands are so cold that I can hardly write. I think I told you that the Japanese had removed the steam pipes and radiators from almost all their buildings to use them as scrap metal. That was true of our building; an attempt is being made to get the equipment reinstalled but it will be spring before they accomplish it! We make a feeble attempt to heat the place with oil-burning tent stoves, but they don’t work worth a darn. They smoke constantly deposit soot all over the place and there’s a black greasy film everywhere.
		And then just last night we found out that we have to move this afternoon from the Finance Building where we’ve been living so comfortably into another building which is just being fixed up for occupancy and which is heated only with the blasted oil stoves again. So we’ll be living 24 hours a day in smoke and soot! As usual no explanation why we have to move has been given – they just say, “get” and we have to get! It’s a bad deal! The only good thing about the situation is that the building where we’ll be living is right across the street from the building our office is located. Of course this convenience is somewhat spoiled by the fact that we have to walk five blocks to eat our meals.
***
		Well, well just to show you how fast things sometimes move I’ll tell you now that it’s afternoon (the above was written this morning) and the moving which was scheduled to take place at one o’clock has been cancelled until further notice! And once again we don’t know why! How the Army ever won the war is sometimes (almost always) beyond my comprehension. However, the cancellation of the moving is good news – at least we’ll be warm for a little while longer!I received your letter of January 20 on Fed 3. I think our moving around last week end delayed its arrival a couple of days perhaps.
		Was interested to hear about Charlie MacArthur. Could you send his exact address – a man who runs a PX is a good man to be in touch with.
		That’s good news about the salad dressing you got from Walt Ritter for the grapes Dad. Going to have a bumper crop this coming year? Glad you have your trimming well toward finished. Hasn’t it been “too cold to trim?”
		Life here has settled down pretty much to a routine here. There is surprisingly little to do with our spare time. We spend a good deal of it buying and selling. Selling a package worth while. I’ve sent Marians birthday present to Betty Felt I think the “girls” will be having a party for her and I’ll have Betty give Marian the present then – I fixed it all up with notes etc. I bought Marian a short type of kimono which I’m sure she’ll be able to use as an evening wrap. It’s a simple black one with a very pretty lining. I think the silk in it is very nice. I hope the thing reaches her safely. I sent it to Betty via first class mail. I had to write on the package that it was a gift values at less than $50 so that I would not have to pay customs duty on it. 
	Had quite an interesting experience last Sunday. I went with a Captain from the O.C.E. out to a warehouse which has been taken over from the Japs. The place had apparently been a warehouse for storing machinists supplies. I never saw so many grinding wheels and drills, and files, and gears, and hammers etc. etc. in my life. There must have been several tons – yes I said tons – of leather belting stored there – all of it brand new and in great rolls ranging in size from that like is on a sewing machine to belting 12 inches wide and ½ inch thick. In the warehouse there was also a great quantity of radio and telephone equipment. And also a lot of bales of paper of various kinds.
		All of this stuff was in a mess – it had been pulled down off the shelves, had been stepped on and broken. The cartons of stuff were broken in to most of it was just being wasted. It was a tragic sight believe me. To see all this waste in this country which is so poverty stricken but then I suppose a person can only say “The Japs asked for it now they’ve got it!” It seems though that our own Army could use a lot of the stuff – don’t know why they don’t. 
		We were allowed to carry away anything we wanted but most of the stuff I got will be of no use to me here, and it’s so silly to ship it home even if I could.
		All of our officers (4 of them) are at the office now we don’t have much to do though. Can’t get a typewriter assigned to us. The two colonels are probably leaving for Washington this coming Sunday. Will be gone a month or so. Wish we could come with them!
		All for now – I’m looking forward to your weekly letter.
								Love,
									Dick

Tokyo, Japan		
9 February 1946	
Dear Mother and Dad and John,

		Am going to make a carbon copy of this letter and send it on to you, John,and then Mother won’t have to bother sending their letter. I thought of your birthday the other day, John, but not in time to send a letter which would have reached you on the day.

		I received the letter you mailed January 28 yesterday, Mother. Golly, the letter you got from me in six days must have certainly made perfect connections. Did I tell you that the rumor has it here that only about one out of four of our letters are going by air mail. There is a shortage of planes and a shortage of men to fly them – at least that’s what they say. The men here are pretty sore about it – they wonder why if the Air Force can’t fly the mail, the government doesn’t hire some airline to do it. Mail, believe me, is pretty important to everyone out here. And it makes people mad to be getting poorer service now that the war’s over than they got before it ended/ Marian mails a letter to me every day and yet I haven’t received one from her since Monday and today’s Saturday. They’ll all come in a bunch probably one of these days – hope so anyway.
		
		We still haven’t received the mail which you sent to APO 4260 at San Francisco (Hamilton Field). Suppose someone just hasn’t gotten around to forwarding it to us yet. So you see I’m still very much in the dark about what you did around Christmas time.

		Thanks, Mom, for sending the package the other day. I shall be looking for it. Don’t quite know what kind of service the fellows are getting on packages. I know that some of them just received some Christmas packages which had been mailed early In October. However part of that delay was explained by the fact that they went first to Manila and then were shipped up here. It’s really best to send packages via First Class mail if they don’t weigh too much.

		Well the weather man promised that we’d have some snow in February and he has been right. It has snowed twice here – about two inches or a little less each time. The snow hasn’t lasted long however. It has been very wet snow both times so things are pretty sloppy while it does last. It’s really something to see some of these people walking around in the snow with only their wooden “clogs” and with no stockings. Gives me goose-pimples to see them. Don’t ever let anyone tell you that the Japanese are not a hardy group of people. How they can stand to work in unheated buildings and stand to live in their paper and wood unheated houses is beyond me. Maybe it’s the fish and rice which keeps them warm. Boy, once I get away from this country I don’t think I’ll ever want to smell frying or cooking fish again so long as I live. A person can’t go in a single building over here – U.S. Army occupied buildings included – without being bowled over by the smell. Don’t quite know where it comes from – the people must cook their meager portion of fish over the little fires which they build right inside the rooms where they go to eat their lunch. Another thing which is funny to see – These people are the greatest ones in the world to build a fire right inside a building. The other day we looked across the street out of our office building into a room of the building opposite ours and the people had a fire going which was blazing up merrily. They may or may not open the window at the top a little bit to let the smoke out.
– .. –
		Our new office is turning out quite well,; the only bad thing about it so far is the lack of heat. We try to heat it with a very ineffective stove which burns fuel oil. But since the stove was designed to heat a tent and designed also to burn wood or coal it doesn’t work very well. We’re constantly having to fuss with it and every time a person touches it, he ends up covered from heat to foot with the dirtiest greasiest soot you can imagine.

		I think, Folks, that the last time I wrote we were threatened with the prospect of moving from the building where we live to another building which is far less satisfactory. Well, we never did move and probably will not move until sometime later at least. Some General called the move off – he said that the building into which they proposed to move us was not fit for occupancy. I don’t usually have good things to say about Generals, but I feel that I must applaud that one! Things are pretty crowded around Tokyo right at the moment. A big bunch of men attached to General Headquarters have just arrived from Manila. By, they’re all glad to be up here. Apparently Manila is just about the worst place imaginable! 

		The Colonel who is our boss here at the office has turned out to be one very swell gent. Never saw a Colonel quite like him. He’s a great kidder and he really goes to bat for the enlisted man every time. A Lt. Col. who is his assistant is also a nice guy. He’s much like the Colonel. The pair of them make some combination believe me. Both of them take a very free and easy attitude about Army red tape and the more of it they can cut the better they like it. They’re leaving tonight by plane (a plane which the Colonel managed to have assigned to himself personally) to Washington to attend a big conference there. Of course, they’ll also have some time at home and that an important part of the trip. They’re getting ready to take-off across that awful big ocean with out making much more preparation than a person would make to make a 500 mile trip in an automobile. There are two enlisted men in the crew of their plane. This trip is a complete surprise to them and believe me, they’re a happy pair!

		Was glad to have your letter. Suppose you have the grapes all trimmed by this time, Dad. What work you planning to do in the basement? Going to seal it in? That will be swell if you do, but I thought you might want to wait to do that until after you found out about the possibility of installing an oil furnace with a blower. That’s what you really need now! Certainly would like to be around the farm for a few days right after you get that quarter beef! Some of those pork chops would be mighty nice too.

		I ate lunch today and have been writing this while the other boys were at lunch. The officers want one of us around at all times to answer the telephone. I apologize for the way this letter looks. The typewriter I’ve been using is one we’ve borrowed until we can get one of our own and it’s sorta on its last legs. Think though, Lad, that this one would work quite well if I used that hunt and peck system if yours! If you’re working the night shift you’ll have a lot of time to address envelopes so write often.

		It’s a nice sunny day here today. Would like to take a few pictures this afternoon. The Colonel gave Ed and me an awful lot of film and I want to shoot some of it up. The first pictures I took and which Marian will be sending to you one day soon didn’t turn out at all well. They’ll be a little better though after they’re enlarged. I don’t think that the man to whom I took them for developing and printing did a very good job. Think I’ll try somewhere else next time!

							That’s all for now, as I say, write often
									Love,

										Dick

Sunday, February 24, 1946	
Dear Mother and Dad,

		Sunday morning here – the day is a dull one and there’s a very cold wind blowing and one is encouraged to stay indoors. We had our weekly excursion this week on Friday. To our surprise, Washington’s Birthday was declared a holiday here. Ed, Larry and I succeeded in getting permission to take our office’s jeep on a little spin. Actually it was more than a little spin – we drove up to a small city in the mountains named Nikko. It was about a 200 miles round trip and that’s a long journey in a jeep on a cold day over the roughest roads you can imagine. Actually Nikko is a very interesting place, but we had a chance to see only a little of it because we had so little time to spend. Before the war the country around Nikko attracted many tourists. The mountains scenery is very attractive and there are several temples and shrines of one sort or another. We saw perhaps the best known of the temples. It was built about 300 years ago. The structures are very, very ornate and these particular ones are painted in an elaborate fashion – gold, red, yellow, blue, green. The temple is set amidst a gove of very large trees – larger trees than I’d ever expected to see here in Japan. Although the temple is old, the trees must have been a great many years older.

		Well, our mail is really messed up. It’s taking letters anywhere from 20 to 25 days to come from the states now. Apparently about all the mail is moving by ship rather than by air. Every day in the local edition of “Stars and Stripes” there are letters to the editor complaining about the service. It’s a little difficult to understand why now that the war is over the Army can’t provide as good service as they provided during the war.Of course, the Army says it’s because there are no flyers to fly the planes and no mechanics to maintain them. They say that the critically needed men have all been discharged. It seems to me that if this is the case, they ought to turn the air mail job over to some commercial company bet there are several which would jump at the chance if given the opportunity. Packages are even worse than letters. Just last week one of the boys here in another office received a package which had been sent to him via first class mail and it had been mailed on December 5! I’m really expecting to receive the package you sent in about two months! Let’s see you sent it just about a month ago now didn’t you?

		We had some excitement at our barracks yesterday morning. Just as we were getting up a fire broke out in one of the rooms of the dispensary on the first floor. It was quite a fire too although at the time is was burning not many of the fellows paid any attention to it. It burned out the whole interior of the room and the smoke messed up the adjacent rooms. They had to use a full sized fire hose to put it out. From what we hear it started when one of the oil heating stoves began to act up. A person had to really be careful with those stoves – we never have our on except when one of us is around to watch it.

		This past week I received a letter from President Brown wanting to know what my feelings were with regard to my return to Denison this fall and whether or not I thought I had any chance of getting out in time to go to work in September. Well. my answer to his questions were all in a letter which I wrote to Dean Richards on Feb. 8 and which he should have received by now. In the letter to the Dean I said that I wanted to be back to teaching in the fall in the worst way and I sent to the Dean the “dope” on what the college has to do to strengthen any application for discharge which I may submit. They have to provide me with a letter which says that there is a job for me, which tells something of the importance of the teaching I was formerly doing, and which says that it’s difficult to find a suitable replacement for me. I’m quite certain that the President and the Dean will provide me with as strong a letter as possible. I have no notion whether an application for discharge will meet with any success or not – I guess the only way to find out is to submit an application and see what happens. I’m thinking that I’ll put in the application sometime in April. At that time I’ll have about a year of service. Probably won;t receive the supporting letter from Denison much before that anyway.

		Even if the application which I submit is turned down, I still think I have a bare chance of being out by September. I think a great deal depends upon what Congress decides to do with the Selective Service measure. If they vote to continue it, thus assuring the Army of a source of new men, the Army is going to be a little more willing to let some of us already in out. A thing which may hurt me, however, is the fact that there seems to be a strong movement afoot to discharge fathers. If they do that, it might make it a little harder for non-fathers. 

		This week the men with 44 and 43 points are going to the replacement depots in preparation for being sent home. Very soon the men with 24 months of service as of June 30 this year will be going (they’ve already been asked to sign rosters). Those men with 24 months service as of June 30 have 20 months at present. It looks very much as though the Army is beginning to definitely lower the amount of service necessary. If they keep it up they might get down to my class by September when I’ll have 17 months in. 

		Marian forwarded to me the clipping showing Phil Cloney and Jack Dempsey. Phil really gets around doesn’t he? Was his operation a success? Or don’t they know yet?

		Marian writes and tells me that she’s taking organ lessons. Isn’t that swell? I’ve always wanted her to do it and now she has a splendid opportunity. She’ll like it a lot I know!

		I’m afraid all the plans I made for Marian’s birthday have gone to pot because I’m almost certain that the package I sent first class from here will not have reached Betty Felt by the time I thought it would. The party at which I thought Betty could give Marian the package is scheduled for Feb. 25. I sent the package on Feb. 2 but that wasn’t soon enough – would have been if the mails hadn’t begun to act up so! I sent a cable to Betty yesterday telling her to proceed as she wished when the package did arrive. She’ll probably arrange a little party of some sort for Marian and give her the package then. 

		All the mail you sent to that APO 4260 has never been sent on. I have sent two cards trying to trace it but no luck as yet. Because I’ve never received that mail, I’m entirely in the dark about your Christmas celebration. - Am going to ask you to tell me about it again,if I don’t hear from the 4260 stuff soon. There’s simply no excuse, except stupid Army procedures, for a lot of the mess things are always in!

		There’s a lot of excitement around here these days concerning the new currency which will go into use as of March 2. The Japs are trying to get rid of their old currency and are on a wild buying spree and prices have gone sky high. The GI’s are trying to decide how much old currency they can turn in without making it too obvious that they’ve been playing the black market! It’s all very, very interesting.

		Guess that’s about all for this time. Am anxious to hear from you – your letter written January 27 is the last one I’ve received!

						Love,

								Dick

[Handwritten] Sending a carbon copy of this to John!
Sunday, March 3, 1946

Dear Mother and Dad and John,

	By the time you receive this you will probably be fully aware of how messed up the mail service is from here and to here these days. Yesterday I received your letter, Mother, which you wrote on Sunday and Monday, Feb 3 and 4th. A week ago yesterday I received the letter which you wrote on February 10! How’s that for system? I receive the letter which you wrote a week later a week earlier – two weeks for one to come, four weeks for the other. I guess I’ve already written that there’s practically no air mail service across the ocean now. Our mail goes by ship and apparently by the slowest ships which can be found! This past week a fast ship arrived here from San Francisco; it came over only partly loaded and had one sack of mail aboard. Everyone was disappointed because they expected it would be loaded with mail. The postal authorities announced, however, that a large quantity of mail (20 tons) was aboard a ship which had left San Francisco on Feb. 25 and which was not due in here until March 15. A “ten day” ship comes over empty and the mail is loaded onto a “20 day” ship – that’s how to keep the soldiers happy!

	While I’m on the subject of mail, I’ll say once again that I still haven’t received that mail which you sent to APO 4260 while we were waiting for the plane at Hamilton Field. Am beginning to despair of ever receiving it. 

	Boy, it really is a miserable day here today. About an inch and a half of snow fell last night. Now it is raining and the wind is blowing quite hard; the snow is rapidly turning to very messy slush! March is coming in just about the way February did. Actually though we can’t complain about the weather we’ve had since we’ve been here. I understand that old residents are saying that this winter has been one of the mildest on record. We have had lots and lots of bright sunny days. In fact I don’t know if I’ve ever experienced a January and a February which were as sunny – certainly not in central Ohio or New York City!

	The amount of work we have to do around the office continues to be very small. And I suspect it’ll stay that way until our Colonel arrives back from Washington. That’ll not be until the 20th of this month or so. Ed Ekland is having to work a little harder because the Colonel agreed before he left that one of us could go down to the Office of the Chief Engineer and do a job which needed doing. The three of us flipped a coin to determine who would go and Ed lost the flip. We’re a little disgusted with the situation because Ed is having to work very hard for OCE and at the same time there are several men in that office who belong there who are doing practically nothing. What it amounts to is that Ed has the ability and the education to do the job and the other lads haven’t so Ed is stuck with it. That’s why Col. Duke (the boss down at OCE) wanted one of us in the first place. We’re wondering what the situation is going to be when our Colonel gets back. We think that Col. Duke is going to try somehow to keep Ed on this job, but we also think that Col. Northrup (our boss) will put up a fight.

	Perhaps you’ve seen in the papers that a crisis has arisen here in Japan over the inflation situation. To try to combat inflation, MacArthur and his advisers decided that the thing to do was to issue new currency. The Japanese people will have to turn in all their old currency to the banks but they’ll not be allowed to have an equal amount of new currency back. They’ll be given 300 yen for the head of a family and 100 yen for each member of that family per month. It is hoped that by thus reducing the amount of yen the people have available that the prices of commodities will drop because if they don’t drop in price no on will have enough money to buy. As usual, of course, there are a lot of loop holes. To a large extent the people will turn to barter; they’ll just trade whatever they have to trade for what even they need. The soldiers here are all wondering how it’s going to affect them. Cigarettes will probably no longer bring 300 yen per carton ($20) but on the other hand cigarettes will probably have great “barter” value. And, of course, any money which the troops have will, or should, buy a lot more than it has bought. Just yesterday, for example, I saw quite a good camera for sale. I asked the man how much he wanted for it and he said 3000 yean ($200); then I asked him how much he wanted if I agreed to pay in “new” yen and he said, “In “new” yen, 2000!” In other words, this indicates that prices will be down by ⅓; actually, however, I think they’ll be down much more than that.

	When we turned our “old” yen in we were issued “new” yen in the form of bills which were printed by the U.S. Government for the invasion of Okinawa. MacArthur has decreed that this “invasion” money is legal tender. This had to be done because the Japanese Government was not able to print sufficient “new” yen in time for their own use and some of the “old” yen are going to be made “new” by attaching a stamp to the old bill. This morning’s “Stars and Stripes” warns that the glue on these stamps is inferior and troops must be careful that the stamp is not lost off the bill. It sounds as though we’re really going to have some fun.

	Well, today is Marian’s birthday. I think I told you last week that I was afraid that the gift I sent her would not arrive on time – it would have if the mail situation hadn’t sudden gotten all fouled up. But I’m not too concerned about it as long as it arrives sometime. Speaking of packages, Mother, I’ll put a request on this letter, but actually there is little I need. If that pillow and the sheets ever arrive I’ll be quite happy. However, if you do send a package, tuck in a few small cans of condensed milk. We have gotten acquainted with a man who runs a jewelry store how has a small baby and I think he’d give us almost anything in his shop for some milk for that child! Over here the mother of a child nurses it for as long as three years (isn’t that something?) but something is wrong with the mother’s milk production in this case and I guess the baby has a hard time getting along. I know that these are the people who started the war and they’re responsible for killing a lot of American boys, but just the same it’s hard not to try to do something to help a little baby which wasn’t even born when the Pearl Harbor attack occurred!

	I have had no further word from Denison. It’s too early yet to expect an answer to my letter asking them to furnish me with a letter to suppose my application for discharge, I’m told that the fellows who are still in the states and who have been in the Army for 18 months are getting out – do you know whether that’s true or not? Hope it is true because that means that sooner or later the 18 months rule will apply over here. If I could beat 18 months by just a little bit I might be able to make it back to Denison by the time school starts in September. You see I’ll have 18 months in on October 23rd!

	We’ve had no word from Washington concerning our promotion; we’re expecting to hear any day now. We’re hoping that the orders will be so written that we’ll receive the higher pay for this month (March). The raise amounts to $19.20 extra per month. As a private overseas and subtracting my “ducks” I draw $23.40; as a corporal I’ll draw $42.60. Of course, one of my “ducks” is a $7.50 War Bond. Incidentally if those bonds haven’t been arriving, don’t worry about it. My records are probably all messed up and they haven’t been taking one out – maybe they have. Maybe some day I’ll find out! But don’t worry!

	Don’t think I’ll start another page. Keep writing every week.

[hand written] Mother, will you send the package I’ve asked for			Love to all,
								Dick				Dick

Sunday, March 10, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John,

	Sunday again and, by golly, if it isn’t a bad day. It’s the funniest thing – I don’t believe that we’ve had more than two Sundays with nice weather since we’ve been here in Tokyo. The weather will be nice all week and then will turn bad on Sunday. It’s cold today and from time to time a few snow flakes of snow fall out of the cloudy sky, one of those damp, gloomy winter days.

	The past week has been quite uneventful. We did about as little work as usual at the office, went to two or three movies, and that’s about all. There was a little excitement last night. As George Burridge and I were coming from the movies we had to go past the Dai Ichi Building (the main Army headquarters bldg) and darned if the place wasn’t on fire! The fire engines were out and they had hose strung to the upper floors of the structure. We couldn’t see exactly where the fire located and we couldn’t find out from anyone what the story was. But apparently it wasn’t very serious because this morning we looked around a bit on the 6th and 7th floors and could see no sign of the fire except a little water on the floors of the corridors. We concluded that the fire may have been on the roof of the building where the Army has installed a couple of Diesel powered electric generators which are housed in wooden shacks. Funny that this fire should have occurred because this morning’s Stars and Stripes reported that two other fires occurred yesterday and last night. One of them destroyed the barracks and garage of a Quartermaster Trucking Company and the other destroyed the installation of a nearby Infantry Company. It seems like there have been a lot of fires but it’s not difficult to understand when one considers how inefficient and dangerous oil-stoves are which are used to heat most of the Army installations!

	One rumor that’s disturbing us greatly is that they’re considering moving us again! We have just gotten nicely settled into our new quarters and they’ve gotten them fixed up quite nicely and now here we go again. It seems that the Government is bringing 400 civilian women over here from the states to work in the offices and they have to find living space for them. So they’re moving officers out of one of their billets, moving them into the building we are now living, and we’ll move out into another building which is just being fixed up, but which, of course, will probably not be entirely fixed up by the time we move. The officers who are being moved are mad and so are we. No one knows why the 400 women are being brought from the States – don’t know whether the big shots are more interested in what the women will be able to do during the day or more interested in what they’ll be able to do during the night! I suspect from witnessing some of the antics of officers that they’re most interested in those night-time activities! A lot of these officers are only gentlemen by Act of Congress believe me! It’s a funny thing, I suspect that most of the people at home think that it’s the common soldier who misbehaves and is unfaithful, etc. but actually I think the officers are more guilty than the men! They certainly make fools of themselves over the relatively few white women who are available here but they by no means restrict themselves to the white women – one of the officers billets about a block from our office is just crawling with Japanese girls almost every night and we often see them coming out of the building early in the morning when we go to breakfast!
	The mail situation continues to be bad but in yesterday’s paper there was an article which promises relief. This month they promise that a much greater porportion of the mail will go out by air than went by air last month. Right at the present time I have received no letter from you or from Marian which is not at least a month old. The last letter of your’s I have received, Mother, is the one you wrote Feb. 10 and the same thing is true with regard to Marian’s letters although I have not yet received her 5th, 6th, 7th of Feb. Two ships came in this week – I got three letters from Marian, the ones she wrote on the 1st,2nd,3rd of Feb., but that was all. I thought I might get the package you sent on January 26th but apparently it did not get to California in time to catch these ships which left on February 9. Oh, well, maybe it’ll be on the next ship! Boy, I tell you the fellows are really mad about the mails being tangled up and it doesn’t seem that there is any very good excuse for it!

	Was surprised to receive a cable from Marian this week – it came on Monday. I had sent her one on Friday, March 1 for her birthday and it apparently arrived on Saturday, March 2nd your time and she sent a cable right back to me. Bill Treby, the man who runs the telegraph office and drugstore in Granville, also sent me one of those “canned” message cables just for fun at the same time.

	Everyone over here is watching the Russian situation with a great deal of interest. We hear reports constantly from men who are just back from Korea that they’re having a dickens of a time with the Russians over there. I can’t understand it – there certainly is no reason under the sun why Russia should want to get into a war with the U.S. Russia is quite exhausted from the war she has just been fighting and I don’t see how she could feel that she has a chance of gaining anything by provoking the U.S. I’m very happy that Byrnes spoke plainly to Russia about the Iranian and Manchurian situations, and I’m quite confident that the Russians will do something about getting their troops out. I think they, the Russians, have been pushing and pushing just to see how far they were going to be able to push us before we began to push back. And now that we have pushed back, I think they’ll behave! Good, Lod, I certainly hope so. A war with Russia would be unbelieveable! I wonder why in the world when no one wants war there always seem to be wars in the making! It’s very discouraging!

	Just back from dinner now. Our meals haven’t been quite so good lately as they were when we first arrived here. Although I think that some of the change is probably in our minds – what I mean is that we’ve grown tired of the food to some extent. We’ve been having alot of chicken lately – so much chicken that the fellows are beginning to groan when they see it. I know that it doesn’t sound right to say that a person can get too much chicken, but it is true. We’ve had no roast beef in two or three weeks. Have lots of meat loaf, stew, hamburger, some ham, porkchops once in a while. Canned peaches is our most frequent dessert and when it’s not peaches it’s pears or fruit for salad. We used to have icecream twice a week but lately we’ve had it on the average less than once a week. We expect that sometime this week the mass hall in our billet will open up. It was supposed to have been ready last Monday, but as usual the plan went wrong. I suspect that when it does get open our food will be better because they won’t have to cook for so many. 

	Well, one week of the new yen era is past and we seem to have survived the monetary crisis quite well. Each time we get a Japanese bill now we have to take a bottle of muscilage and stick the little stamp onto it more securely so that it will not be lost off – the glue the Japanese used is absolutely no good. The little stamp makes an old bill into a new one.

	Guess that’s about all for this time. I’m anxious always to hear from you.

	So long, Folks

[handwritten]									Love,
No news of our promotion!
No mail from APO 4260								Dick
No news concerning the discharge situation!

Saturday, March 16, 1946
Tokyo, Japan		
Dear Mother and Dad and John,

		Writing a little early this week chiefly because there’s nothing else do do around the office this morning. In fact, right at the moment I’m the only one who has arrived at work even though it’s 8:30 – one-half hour after our official start time.

		First of all, Mother, let me say that the package which you sent arrived last Monday and I certainly was pleased to have it and I thank you a lot for sending it. The pillow is certainly swell and the sheets are heaven after sleeping between the Army blankets. Thank you also for the soap and the candy although we can buy all of those two things which we need over here in the PX. As a matter of fact, the three of us have remarked that when we receive letters from home asking what we want sent, we’re hard put to answer. There’s very little we need which we can’t buy. However, if you see any good Army discharges for sale you might send one of them – I could certainly use it!

		Except for the package I’ve received on other mail now for ten days. Several ships were supposed to arrive the middle of this week. In this morning’s paper there was an item saying that the ship which does have over twenty tons of air mail aboard and which left San Francisco on February 25 has been delayed in arriving but is expected within 48 hours. In an announcement in Sunday’s paper General MacArthur announced that air mail service was to be restored at once, but so far there has been no sign that this has been done. However I do think that the worst is probably over now and we will get a little better service in the near future. 

		I believe that this past week has been the dullest since we arrived here. We’ve had practically no work to do, there have been no entertainment events of any particular interest. Seems as though we’ve just sat around waiting for the time to pass. On Wednesday we had to have three more “shots” – one for typhoid, one for typhus, and one for cholera. For the first time since I’ve been these shots I was upset by them – had a dickens of a headache and little fever all day Thursday and had about the sorest pair of arms you can imagine. Hope we’re finished with the “shots” now for a while. You might be interested to know that since I’ve been in the Army I’ve had 16 “shots” of one kind and another and two small pox vaccinations. It would seem that I’d be immune to most everything. I suspect that we received the typhus shot this week because there are a good many cases of that disease here in Tokyo. The Army is out spraying people with DDT to kill the lice which carry the disease, but they haven’t been able to get it entirely under control. I guess that one of the difficulties is that some of the Japanese who are coming back from Korea and other places on the Asiatic mainland are sneaking past authorities and miss out on the DDT treatment. I haven’t heard that there are any cases of typhus amongst the troops here. I suspect however that you read about the ship from here being quarantined at Seattle because she had a suspected typhus case aboard.

		This week for the first time the mess hall in the building where we live was opened for service. It’s really very convenient for us now – we don’t have to walk five blocks to meals as we formerly had to and we just have to come across a narrow street from the place where we live to the place where we work. We’re really very well fixed now and we’re wondering how long it’s going to be before the Army decides to move us – that usually happens just about the time things get settled down.

		Yesterday a rumor reached us that the Red Cross was distributing sleeveless sweaters to the troops so we rushed right over and it was the truth. We each got a very nice sweater and they fit quite well too. So, Mother, you can tell any of your friends who have knitted those sweaters that they finally reach their destination. The one which I was given was knitted by someone in the San Diego, California chapter of the Red Cross. The Red Cross is certainly a fine organization, is very worthy of wholehearted support. They’ve just opened another club here in Tokyo. The one large one they had was always slightly over-crowded.
	
		I suppose that our Colonels will be back sometime this coming week. Imagine we’ll be a little more busy after their return, but I can’t see how we’ll have an overwhelming amount of work to do. It will be good to have Colonel Northrup back – he’s really a swell guy, full of wisecracks as anyone I’ve ever known and he likes nothing better than ti cut Army red-tape which, of course, endears him to us!

		I hope that this coming week I’ll have some news from Granville from Denison concerning what they will do about the application for discharge which I plan to submit. I am assuming that they’ll supply me with the necessary letter. Will be very surprised and very disappointed if they don’t! I still haven’t any strong feeling one way or the other concerning the chances of success when I do submit the application. I really think that this fool Russian situation is going to slow down demobilization to some extent although I feel also that it will assure the continuation of Selective Service. This week I sent a cable and also wrote a letter to Prof. Kerr of Columbia asking him for a letter to support my application. Thought that it might help to have a letter stating that I intend to pursue research leading to my PhD degree.

		It’s Saturday afternoon now. I have just this minute received a cable from Marian saying that Denison sent the letter supporting the discharge application on March 14. So that’s that much, at least. Now I’ll wait to see what Prof. Kerr does and when both letters arrive I’ll get the application under way and cross my fingers!

		I guess I haven’t said in this letter that I still haven’t received the mail forward from APO 4260. However, this past week both Ed and Larry received their’s – why my mail didn’t come at the same time only God and the Army Postal System knows! However, the fact that they did receive their’s gives me hope that mine will come sometime. The last letter of your’s which I’ve received, Mother, is your’s of the 10th of Feb.

		It’s time now to close up shop here for another week. Actually our quitting time is a very unimportant thing because we spend most of our waking hours around the office here. About all we ever do at our rooms is sleep.

		So long now, Folks, until next time. Hope by next week-end I’ll have a couple of letters of yours to answer.

											Love,
												Dick
[Handwritten]
Sunday morning!
Darned if it isn’t snowing again today
Three Sundays in a row!

Tokyo, Japan		
March 24, 1946	
Dear Mother and Dad and John,

		Week before last I received not a single letter; this past week I received 32 letters from Marian, 4 from you, Mother, 2 from Dean Richards at Denison, 1 from Prof. Wright, 1 from Sherm and Virginia Neuschel. I also received a package from Marian and a cable. Wasn’t that a week? I was kept busy all week long reading mail and trying to answer some of it.

		One of the reasons there was so much mail was that at long last the mail which you sent to APO 4260 (Hamilton Field) caught up to me. I had just about given up hope that it would ever arrive, and I was certainly glad to see it. And so – I heard all about your Christmas. It sounded pretty nice. Sounded as though you had a lot of fun digging cars out of the snow and putting on chains, etc. etc. Too bad the weather had to act up quite so much. Marian tells me though that she had no particular difficulty making her various journeys. I’m pretty proud of the way she can get around by herself. I’m certainly hoping that I’ll be around with you all next Christmas – this being away from your family at that particular season is, as they say, “for the birds”!

		Before I forget it, Dad, let me say congratulations on that nice big legacy from Aunt Anna. Do you feel compensated at long last for that time Uncle Frank refused to let you have the groceries on credit? You want to be careful now that some sharper doesn’t sell you a lot of stock in a dry oil well – you know how those birds go out and prey on “the newly rich”! Also, referring to a later letter, congratulations on that pay raise at the shop. I’d say that was a pretty swell job you have! A swell job even considering all the “ducks” which they take out of that pay.

		Speaking of pay raises – you remember a long time ago I mentioned that our officers had put us in for promotions. Well, the letter went to Washington on Feb 1; it finally found its way back here,all approved, this past week. But they had failed to”cut” orders on the promotions and when we investigated how to have that done, we discovered that it would have to go all through “channels” here and will probably take the better part of a month. We also discovered that the whole thing would never have had to have gone to Washington in the first place! This is the kind of thing which keeps the morale of a soldier so high! The whole mis-handled deal probably cost each of us a hundred dollars or so, but the Captain just sort of laughed and said, “well, that’s Army red tape, you know!” And so – perhaps along about the middle of April, we may be promoted all the way up to Corporals! That job pays $79.20 a month when one is overseas – of course there are several bad “ducks” out of that – $22 for my share of Marian’s allotment, $7.10 for insurance, $7.50 for Bond. By the way have any of those Bonds been arriving? Or is that business all screwed up too? Suppose it is! Of course, actually we don’t need any money over here. I can take six cartons of cigarettes out and sell them for more money than I’d make as a Corporal even if nothing was deducted from my pay (six cartons of cigarettes are with $80!) The catch it, of course, that I can’t because that means that I have a carton of cigarettes to sell every week! The only time we can send money home is when we get paid. We’re hoping to be paid at the end of this month (first time in four months) and I’m going to try to send all of the money home! 

[handwritten] The work you’ve done on the attic certainly sounds swell. Bet it looks nice!

		What do you think of the deal Marian made on selling old “Georgie” Think that it was the thing to do myself – I doubt it she would have been able to get ceiling price for the car very much longer. I think that as new cars become a little more available that the used car market will go to pieces. She really didn’t have a lot of use an auto anyway and it was a good bit of trouble for her to take care of a car as old as George was. Marian writes very enthusiastically about the new Plymouths. As a matter of fact I think she has just about decided to go to Newark and sign us up for a new one. It might be that just about the time I get out of the Army we’ll be able to get it – and certainly a car is one of the first things we’ll have to have!

		This week I received the letter from Dean Richards which he wrote to back up the application for discharge which I plan to submit. I think Marian said that she sent you a copy of the Dean’s letter. I think it’s a darn good letter, but I don’t for the life of me know how much good it will do. I haven’t submitted the application yet. I’ve just about decided that I’ll submit it first to Colonel Northrup. He still hasn’t come back from Washington – expect him this week though. However, I’m still waiting for another letter from Professor Kerr. When that letter arrives and when the Colonel gets back – I’ll do the deed! If the Colonel agrees to approve the application and makes a “first indorsement” of it, it’ll have to go to Washington to be acted upon by “higher echelons”. I think I have a better chance of getting the thing through if it goes to Washington than if it’s acted upon here. Inasmuch as we’re actually assigned in Washington and not in this theatre, I have an excuse to send the application to Washington. If the Colonel acts favorably upon it and sends it to Washington, I suspect it’ll be a couple of months before I hear anything one way or the other. So it’s going to involve a long “sweating out” period!

		We had some good weather yesterday (Sunday) for a change but I didn’t take advantage of it. Spent all the day here at my desk trying to make some first-drafts of the letters which I must write to the Colonel when I submit my discharge application. Got them pretty well in shape I think. Now if the letter from Kerr arrives and the Colonel gets back, I can make my move!

		Larry went on a little field trip this week with a couple of the fellows from down in Natural Resources Section. They visited a mine about a hundred miles north of Tokyo. It was a lead-zinc mine – Larry has a lot of experience around mines of that type so it was very interesting as far as he was concerned. I have to laugh, Larry probably knew much more about the whole situation than the two men he was with and yet Larry sits here in this office and does nothing! That’s the Army.

		Well, Folks, I can imagine that every now and then there’s a bit of spring in the air. Would certainly like to be around the farm now. Suppose, Dad, you’re setting some posts and you, Mother, are getting some of the tying done – don’t work too hard at it now. Was just thinking the other day about that strawberry patch – is this the year? Wow! I’d certainly like to be there. If this discharge application fizzles out, I figure it’ll be about November – oh, well, that’s something. I’ve at least gotten more than half my time in!

	So long now, Folks!

[Handwritten]									Love,
Received Charlie MacAllister’s address – think I know where he is!			Dick

Tokyo, Japan		
Tuesday, April 2, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John,

		I am late at starting the weekly letter this week. Our Colonels arrived back from Washington on March 26th; they immediately began to make plans to go to Manila, (they plan to leave tomorrow) and consequently, for a change, we’ve had a lot of work to do. The Colonels are taking the two Captains with them to Manila so after they have left we’ll be here all alone. There’ll only be two of us because the Colonels decided that they could take one of us along with them; they left it up to us to decide who should go. We flipped a coin and Ed was the winner! Larry and I were disappointed of course, but on the other hand, Ed was probably the most entitled to the trip because all the time the Colonels were in Washington, he had a “bad deal” writing reports for the Office of the Chief Engineer (Colonel Northrup loaned one of us to that office before he left for Washington – that time when we flipped the coin, Ed lost). This present trip will be quite an interesting one – on the way to Manila they plan to stop off for two or three days at Okinawa, and on the return trip they plan to stop at Guam. Ed is pretty excited about the whole thing.

		I’m pretty excited about some events of last week too. I typed out my application for discharge and handed it to the Colonel and he quite readily agreed to sign the “first indorsement” of it and forward it to Washington for further action. I think there is some reason to be optimistic about the matter. The thing which pleases me is that the final action will be taken in Washington rather than in this theatre of operations. I think Washington will give it more sympathetic treatment inasmuch as they are a little more aware of the situation which exists with regard to the shortage of qualified college instructors. As part of the “first indorsement” the Colonel urged that action on the discharge application be expedited to bring about my discharge by August. So, Folks, I’ve got my fingers crossed – think I may make it in time to eat some of those peaches before starting the year at Denison September 5! You cross your fingers too!

		Another thing – did you notice on the envelope that I’m a Corporal now! Yep, the orders raising us to that illustrious rank came through dated March 29! Now we’re hoping that they’ll turn right around and put us in for a Sergeant’s rating. Theoretically we only have to remain Corporals for one month; in other words, by the 29th this month, we’re eligible to receive another raise in rank and we’re hoping that about on the 30th the orders to that effect will be posted! Our overseas pay as Corporals is $79.20. My “ducks” amount to 36.60 so I’ll draw 42.60; we’re allowed to send that money home if we wish, and I’ll certainly be doing it. Marian certainly has written that she signed us up for a new Plymouth and that forty dollars will buy a tail-light or two! Incidentally, let me explain about the bonds, Mother. Apparently bonds are only taken out when we get paid; I was last paid for November but they told me they would take no bond out for that month (and they didn’t). We’re supposed to get paid today for the months of Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Now as I understand it, one of these days you should receive bonds for those months. I really think those bonds are more of a nuisance than they are good!

		I received several letters from you folks last week – three I think it was. The most recent one was your’s of March 19. That was the one you wrote, Mother, to tell about your Christmas. Well, as I’ve already written I finally did receive that APO 4260 mail, but it was nice to hear about Christmas all over again. I was certainly glad to have all the other news of home. Wish I’d have been around to help you cut that door in the little barn, Dad, that would have been fun. What are you going to do extend the cinders of the drive down that far now? Too bad you’re going to have trouble getting your tractor because all the veterans have first priority – I think they’re carrying this veteran business a little too far. After all, other people have to get along too!

		Sounds as though Jack and June have been having their trouble with illness of various sorts. It’s really too darn bad about June – I suspect that all the trouble she has had hadn;t done much to help here disposition. Which house was it that Uncle Ralph and Aunt Ila sold – the one on Lane Blvd or the flat. I suspect it must have been the Lane Blvd one!

		Was glad to hear that Ferd got out of his basement in time to get at his trimming before it was entirely too late. I had to smile about the fact that his brother was back on the same job – I’ve sorta forgotten what that argument was about that time, but wasn’t Ferd arguing that his brother wouldn’t want such a bad job as that one back after he had the experience of being in the Army. I’m sorry you don’t see the Potters a little more frequently – they’d be some company for you, but on the other hand, I can understand how it’s difficult to get along with them.

I remember, Mother, the spring on your washing machine which broke. Am glad you had Marian’s machine to finish up with. What you should do is go right over to Paw Paw and put your name in with Paul Warner or somebody for a new washer – one of those nice square tub, cast aluminum Maytags!

		It sounds as though spring has really come around your corner of the world. We’ve been having some very fine weather here to. Haven’t been out in the country for the last two or three weeks so I don’t know what things are like out there – the fruit trees should be in blossom I’d think. Am anxious to get a glimpse of the far-famed cherry blossoms.
		
		That’s about the story for this time – will try to drop you a note a little more frequently. We shouldn’t have much to do while the officers are gone – guess I didn’t say that they probably be away for about two weeks!

		So long, Folks,						Love,
												Dick
[Handwritten]
I’m very anxious to hear about your week-end in Granville. Received Marian’s letter written the 21st this morning. 
I’ll not expect any news on the discharge application for a month and a half or so after it leaves here. Have to wait for the papers from Prof. Kerr before sending it from here. Hope it can go in about April 15 – 

Tuesday, April 9, 1946
Tokyo, Japan		
Dear Mother and Dad and John,

		Just a little late again this week at getting to the weekly letter. Yesterday, just exactly a week after you mailed it, I received your letters, Mother and Dad, which you wrote March 31 and April 1. That’s pretty good service – some change from the kind of service we were getting in late Feb. and early Mar.! I think your letters come through a little more quickly on the average than Marian’s do – I suspect it’s because your get to Chicago a little more quickly and hence get a head start on their way to the West Coast.

		We had two days off this past week-end on account of the fact that Saturday, Army Day, was declared a holiday. On Friday we planned a trip down toward Mt. Fuji; we were going to drive down on Saturday, stay over-night Saturday night and come back on Sunday. But when we awoke Saturday morning it was raining! I never saw the like of it – it certainly seems to rain every time we have a day off. Well, as long as it was raining there was no need to go down to try to get a good look at Mt. Fuji so we called off the trip. Saturday afternoon we went out to a part of the city here where there happens to be a whole lot of bookstores and spent quite a bit of time looking around them – it’s surprising how many English books they have for sale – some very interesting things too!

		Sunday morning I spent writing a letter to Dean Richards at Denison regarding action with which it appears the U.S. Office of Education may be able to take concerning my discharge application once that application reaches Washington. The Office of Education has been appointed by the Army and Navy as a certifying agency – the Education Office certifies certain people to the branches of the Armed Forces for discharges and I think it will be quite possible for them to certify me. Hope so anyway. Sunday afternoon we took quite a long ride out into the country – Yes, the weather was good on Sunday – it was interesting to see what was going on in the agricultural regions now that spring has come. We saw lots and lots of cherry blossoms and many other trees and flowering shrubs were in full bloom. The section through which we travelled on Sunday was not a rice raising area – wheat and barley were the main crops. Over here the grain is planted in rows about twelve inches apart and the farmers actually cultivate the crops as they grow; they hoe the wheat and barley just as an American farmer would cultivate his corn! The farmers were also very busy fertilizing their fields with the very potent “night soil” (human manure) and some of the odors carried by the breezes were “out of this world”!

		All of our officers – the Colonels and the Captains and Ed Eakland took off last Wednesday for Manila. They were going first to Okinawa – although we haven’t definitely heard,we suspect that they had to stay over on Okinawa longer than they had planned to because the typhoon which struck the Philippines the same day they left here. They were lucky that they didn’t fly directly to Manila because if they had they would have arrived right in the midst of the storm! Larry and I without the officers have had event less than usual to do.

		When I stop to think how completely wasted this last year has been it gives me the heeby-jeebies! I sometimes wonder if I’ll ever be able to do any work again! Yessir, it was just a year ago this coming Thursday (April 12 last year) that Marian and I left the farm on our way to Washington. Remember? It was the day that Pres. Roosevelt died. We heard about his death for the first time when I went in to the station there in Lawton to pick up the telegram which had arrived for me from the Geological Survey. 

		Sounds as though your shop is really going to town, Dad. Must be a lot of difference between making those little valves for V8 engines and those giant ones you made during the war. Suppose your place is busy too, John, making those engines for Kaiser-Frazer. Are you in production yet?

		So you uncovered the strawberry bed – boy, oh boy, I certainly wish I were going to be there to have some of them this year. This is the first year they’ll bear isn’t it? Or do they have another year to go? I’m very glad you got the willow and the maple, etc. That willow ought to do very well there – would think that the conditions are just about ideal for it. Suspect that the maple will have a hard time of it because of the way the roots of that poplar are spread out everywhere. A silver maple is the same as a soft maple,isn’t it – they grow remarkably fast. I was glad to hear that your mild weather hadn’t been of long enough duration to bring the buds out so that your cold snap did them damage. What’s the dope on the price of grapes this year? Are they going to be as high as last year? With the shortage of beer there is going to be – wine ought to be in great demand!

		Hope that if you get any new neighbors in Joe’s house that they’ll be people who will cause you no trouble. Have you thought any more about trying to get that land away from Joe? Don’t suppose that it’s worth a thousand dollars but it’s certainly too bad that piece can’t be hooked to yours. Then you could have the State set the whole thing out to evergreens! Am I crazy? Could have a mighty nice apple orchard.couldn’t you,in that south portion of the place? Or is the land just too bad?

		By the way, Mother, I finally got paid last Tuesday and they had taken money out for War Bonds so one of these days you should receive a bond for me for Dec., Jan., Feb., and Mar., Whee, that’ll amount to all of thirty dollars! My pay netted me just over $90.00. I managed to get permission to buy a money order with all of it and I’m sending it to Marian – will buy the right front fender of that new Plymouth!

		Well, Professor Kerr’s letter supporting my application for discharge arrived and that letter plus the Dean’s letters are being photostated now. As soon as the photostats come back, the application can be put in an envelope and sent on its way to Washington. Then comes the time for keeping fingers crossed and the time for uttering those prayers! I’m hoping that the application which will be sent air mail will arrive in Washington around April 22-25 (will arrive there just a year to the day approximately after I was inducted) Don’t know quite why, but I’ve been feeling a little more optimistic regarding it’s chances for success these past few days. Hope I’m not just building myself up for an awful let down!

		It’s time now to go to get the mail and I’ll close and take these letters to the postoffice with me. Write often because I like to hear whats going on around the farm. Hope I can be there before the summer’s over!

[hand written] Did you say the Lawton Leader printed the Atams story? Send me the clipping!

								Love,
									Dick

Wednesday, April 17, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John;

		I think that this has been the rainiest day we’ve ever experienced here in Tokyo. It certainly has been coming down fast and furiously all day long and it shows no sign of letting up even now.

		Am late at writing the weekly letter this week. Our officers all arrived back Monday noon and since then things have been popping pretty fast. I have grown so accus-to doing no work that when some come along I hardly know how to act and what I have to do takes a lot of time. From what Ed Eakland has to tell of the trip they had a very good time. They unfortunately had quite a bit of bad weather which kept them from seeing some things – particularly when they were flying over them, but nevertheless, the trip as a whole was a success. Ed says that Manila is just about the worst mess a person can imagine. The city, of course, was pretty well wrecked during the war and the Filipino people are doing very little to try to clean it up – they’re doing much less, Ed said, than the Japanese are doing here in Tokyo. Two things seems to be the matter – first the people are pretty lazy and are inclined to sit back and wait for someone else (the U.S. they hope, I suppose) to pay them handsomely to build back their own city and second no one seems to have any money with which to do anything, most of the people who had money lost it completely during the Japanese occupation of the Philippines. Apparently the U.S. soldiers in Manila are about as completely demoralized as any soldier anywhere. There is plenty of whiskey to be had and Ed says that he never saw so many drunk people in his life – they just get drunk and stay drunk for days on end. About four or five soldiers are killed every night either fighting among themselves or with the Philippines people. Captain Shute happened to be an eye-witness of a knife fight between a G.I. and a Filipino in which the Filipino was finally killed! Guess we can be really thankful that we’re not down there in Manila. It doesn’t sound good!

Friday, April 19, 1946
Hello, again:
		Certainly am having a time getting this letter finished – had a hard time getting it started too.

		Things have continued to be busy. The Colonels are quite an active pair and they get things done with a bang. They continue to be about the finest bosses a person could possibly have – we certainly struck it lucky when we drew them!

		Right at the moment things are shaping up with regard to two more trips. The first will be to Shanghai and the second to Australia. Yesterday Colonel Berry asked me If Larry and I had decided who was going on what trip, I told him we hadn’t decided but that we would decide. So Larry and I “drew straws” – he drew the Shanghai trip and I drew the Australia one! Isn’t that big news! I know very little more about the trip – don’t know for certain when we’ll leave but it will probably be sometime between the 15th and 20th of May. Don’t know how long we’ll be gone, don’t know what places we’ll visit, don’t even know why we’re going. Of course, I’m going mostly for the trip – there really is no need to have me along – The Colonels take us on these trips only because they know we enjoy going! We’ll travel by air, of course. Don’t know if I’ve ever said but both Colonels are pilots – they have a B17 airplane assigned to them with its own crew of four – nice, eh?

		Of course, you are wondering as I am what happens if I should happen to have good news concerning my discharge before we leave. Well, under those circumstances, I might not be able to go, although it would depend on what lee-way was given the Colonel in sending me home. If it should happen in that it was up to them when to send me, they might give me my choice of coming home before the trip or taking the trip and then coming home – I think I’d be foolish if I didn’t stay over to take the trip – it’s a chance of a life time. If the news concerning my discharge should come through while we’re gone nothing will be done concerning it until we get back “home” to Tokyo.

		Guess that the above is by far the biggest news from here. I’ll keep you-informed on any developments concerning the trip.

		I finally got my application for discharge off to Washington on April 12. If it takes it ten days to go, it should arrive there about Monday, April 22. As I have written, I don’t expect to be hearing anything one way or another for three weeks or so after that. 

		Everyone over here was pretty disgusted with the way the House handled the Selective Service Bill the other day. Of course, they (the House) can’t please everyone and I suppose all the young fellows at home were pleased with what the House decided. But putting all personal feelings on one side and the other aside, it seems to me that the way they handled the bill was a mistake. The way I see it, the only reason the Army has had as much success with its recruiting drive as it has had is because there was the “axe” of the draft hanging over the heads of the young fellows. The House proposed to take away that axe; well, in my opinion, watch the recruiting rate decrease! In today’s paper here, we read that the Senate is not too pleased with the measure as the House passed it and there’s a good chance that the whole bill may be re-written – that’s more like it. Really, that House measure was one of the most stupid things I’ve heard of in a long time. This is no time in the World’s history for a bunch of important legislators to “play politics”!

		Well after our rainy day on Wednesday, the weather cleared rapidly. Yesterday was terribly windy, but today is really fine. The leaves are pretty well out here on the trees within the Imperial Palace Grounds. We took a little trip into the country the other day and things are booming out there. The wheat is about ten inches or so high. The farmers are beginning to get their fields ready for planting rice; they’re preparing the seed beds now where they grow seedlings which are transplanted into the paddies along toward the beginning of the summer.

		Marian sent the letter which Mr. Spicer had sent to you about the piece he had seen in the Lawton paper. It was very nice of him to say the things he said about me! Think I asked you once to send the piece from the paper, would like to see it.
		What do you think about Marian’s getting the apartment – I think it’s swell. I’m trying to urge her to move all our stuff – or almost all of it – to Granville. I think in the long run it would be better than to move part of it now and then we’d just have to mess around moving the rest of it sometime. I even want her to move the piano if you are still interested in having her have it. However, the refrigerator stays exactly where it is – we’re not going to move that heavy thing; it’s yours!

		Now I must get this in the mail if it’s ever going to reach you. I promise that I’ll do better at writing this weekend! So long, Folks,
								Love,

										Dick

Wednesday, April 24, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John: 

		Well my first year in the Army is past; was inducted just a year ago yesterday. Certainly would like to know just how much of the second year I’ll put in.

		Had a letter yesterday from Dean Richards which contained a carbon copy of a letter he wrote to a Dr. Hollis of the U.S. Office of Education urging that office to take action on the matter of my discharge application. If Dr. Hollis does go to work on the proposition I think that it will help a lot – the Army and the Navy here both agreed to pay attention to the recommendations of the Office of Education. Once again, all I can say is that we’ll have to wait and see!

		Received your nice long letter, Mother, of April 11 and 12 yesterday. I was awful sorry to hear that you had had some frosts which had done some damage to the fruit. Certainly hope that it will not be too severe. This year must have been like last year – a mild March followed by a cold April. I can remember how cold it was at Camp Atterbury just a year ago. Glad to hear that the grapes are perhaps not hurt. Did the frost hit the orchards nearer the lake as bad?

		Was certainly interested to hear all the news concerning the various stores you looked at. The one in Mattewan sounded very interesting, but I certainly understand how a store of that type would have a lot of merchandise which had accumulated for a long time and which would be almost useless. Certainly sounded as though it was a busy place if three people worked there steadily. Not surprised that the meat situation was bad in the Plainwell store – from what I can read over here the situation with regard to the black market on meat must be pretty bad. I can’t understand why something can’t be done to clean it up a bit. It’s funny but it seems that most of the news we have from the states is bad news – perhaps the Army wants it to be that way to encourage the men to re-enlist. They haven’t scared me though – I’m very willing to take a chance as a civilian!

		Well yesterday we signed up for a new job! Yep, the three of us signed up to teach a course in Physical Geology here at the Tokyo War College (the college occupies a building right next to our office building). Our Colonels happened to get to talking with the Major who directs the college one day and they mentioned the fact that they had three geologists working for them. The Major asked the Colonels if we would by any chance be interested in teaching a course in Geology because they had had many enquiries concerning such a course. The Colonels said that they didn’t know but that they’d ask us. Ask us they did and the proposition appealed to us especially since they agreed to allow us to share the responsibility and the agreed to give us great freedom of action. In other words, we will be allowed to leave on the trips with the Colonels which may be coming up. Also they assured us that our departure from this theatre in the event that we are ordered home for discharge would be in no way interfered with.

		I should perhaps explain a little something about the college. It was organized during these past couple months and opened on April 8. They have afternoon and evening classes for officers and men who want ot take courses at both the high school and college levels. Most of the instructors are civilians who have been hired to come over to take the jobs, but they have also taken on some military personnel on a voluntary basis as instructors. We’re a little peeved that they don’t feel that they can pay us a little something extra for doing the work, but they say that they have no funds available.However, it will be fun we think. It’ll enable me to get my hand back into the teaching game and will give Larry and Ed a little experience in teaching – they’ve had little or no experience to date! We have no notion how large a class we’ll have. Registration will be held during the first days in May; our first class session will be Monday night, May 13!

		Have no new information concerning the Australia trip except that it is planned for the latter part of May – hope it’s not much later than that. The more I think about it the more I don’t want to miss out on it if at all possible. 

		Oh, before I forget – I shipped three quite large packages to you in Lawton day before yesterday. One of them contains a Japanese Military Surveyor’s Transit, another the tripod for the instrument and the third is a box of miscellaneous junk which I’ve picked up. You don’t even need to open the packages when they come; just stick the stuff away with the rest of our junk! The amount of postage on them will amaze you and I suspect the mail man will think I’m an awful dope, but remember those stamps were bought with very “cheap” yen. Actually there’s about two cartons of cigarettes worth of postage on the three packages!

		I should say that the transit is one I managed to get through a deal that Ed worked with the OCE when he was working down there while the Colonels were in the U.S. All three of us got one – they’re transits which were taken away from the Japanese Army. Don’t quite know what I’ll do with mine, but it can always be used by the Engineering Department of any college where I’m teaching. Suppose the instrument is actually worth a hundred and fifty dollars or so! Can always hock it!

		Well, think we’re due for another promotion soon. The request for the promotion is all typed up and will go in next Monday, the orders should come through shortly after the first of the month. I’m to become a buck Sergeant and Larry andEd are to be T/4’s (all are equivalent in pay). [Arrow from pay points to a message written in the margins that says “93.60 per month overseas but my ducks amount to 36.60] We’re not eligible for another promotion after this one for two months so I’m hoping we’ll never make it but will be discharged first. Although come to think of it we’ll be eligible the first of July and I hardly think I’ll be out by then. It would be kinda fun to make Staff Sergeant but I certainly don’t want to stay in any extra days to accomplish it!

		I’m waiting to hear from Marian how she reacts to my idea of moving almost all of our stuff to Granville instead of only part of it. Still think we should do it that way or we’ll be hauling stuff for months having to strap it to the car and pile it in and everything else and I’ve had too much of that to enjoy it!
		Guess that’s about the story for this time. Will keep you informed concerning any new developments!

[rectangular section of the letter underneath this last paragraph all the way over to the closer is cut out] 								Love,
										Dick

Monday, April 29, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad and John:

		Your nice long letter written Easter Sunday and Monday was received today. Letters have been coming through rather consistently in a week and it’s certainly nice to have them. I was certainly pleased to hear all about the trees being in blossom and the rye being knee high. Sounds as though things are really beginning to perk under the influence of the April showers and sunshine!

		One thing – guard those peach blossoms with your very life because I grow more and more optimistic that about August I’m going to be around there to eat them three times a day – no, better make it four times! This morning in a letter from Marian I received copies of a letter which Dr. Hollis of the U.S. Office of Education wrote to Colonel Hinshaw, Personnel Officer of Military Intelligence Service; in this letter Dr. Hollis certified my eligibility for release! Of course this certification is by no means a mandate to the War Department to discharge me, but, on the other hand, it is a recommendation which carries a lot of weight – at least I would think it would. I’m certainly pleased with this news and, as I say, it causes me to be pretty optimistic. Holy smoke, I wish with this news I knew how soon there would be some news and I wish I had some idea how the news will come when it does come. The ideal thing would be for Washington to give Colonel Northrup the authority to order me home whenever he sees fit providing it’s before the first of August or some date around then. If this should happen, I think the Colonel would just about let me “write my own ticket”. My choice would be to take the Australian trip and right afterward leave for the U.S. But then, that would be just too good a deal!

		Have little or no news on the Australian trip. Am quite certain it will come off all right but it probably will not be until the latter part of May or the first of June. The Colonels are going to make a trip to Shanghai sometime this coming month and there’s also a rumor that they’ll be going to Hawaii to pick up a larger airplane to use on the Australian trip. General Loper of the OCE will be going to Australia and he apparently wants to enjoy the comforts of a C-54 (a plane like the one we flew across the Pacific).

		With the Officers all around we have been relatively busy here at the office, but by no means so busy that we’ve been at all strained! We spend a lot of time standing around “shooting the bull”; the Colonels are great guys for that occupation. They’re certainly a pair!

		Sounds as though you’re really going to have a big celebration at the Lodge Hall. Too bad you were having so much trouble getting meat to eat – sounds to me as though the meat situation is as badly snagged up as a lot of things in the Army are. I wonder how soon people are going to realize that the only way they’re going to get out of their difficulties is to get back to work and to produce some things. The simplest way to end the danger of inflation is to produce so much goods that people will not have to compete with one another to buy!

		It was nice that you went over to see Beulah and Bill. B. wrote to Marian and Marian sent the card on to me that you had been there; said that they enjoyed having you. I hope that they got over to pay you a visit. I guess BIll is really a pretty busy boy. It must be nice out at their place at this time of the year with spring coming on! Glad that the shrubbery which Ray Binns left with them survived all right. I’m certainly anxious to see all the new plantings you have made around the house. Hope the willow tree pulls through all right; isn’t a willow always a little slow at putting out leaves in the spring?

		We have no additional news on the Geology course which the three of us are to teach at the Tokyo Army  College. Sometime this week the publicity concerning the new session at the college is scheduled to “break” and I suspect our course will be among those mentioned. Think I told you that the first class meeting will be on May 13. Am looking forward to the beginning of the course – hope our promotions to sergeants is through by then – am pretty sure it will be!

		Marian and I are having a great time writing back and forth concerning the apartment she has rented. From what she had to say in the letter which I received today, I think I’ve just about talked her into moving the great majority of our “stuff” from the farm. Hope it works out that way so that the junk can be out of your road! Marian says that the rooms of the apartment are quite small; but in spite of this, I think we should move the stuff. Then if it should happen that we move somewhere else at the end of next year, the stuff will all be in one place. Marian is talking in terms of wanting the piano if you are still willing that she should have it. She’ll get a lot of enjoyment out of it. She certainly seems to be enjoying the organ lessons she’s taking now; I’m very anxious for her to continue. Hope that she will feel that she has time to do it next year!

		We’ve spent quite a lot of time this last week doing some shopping – haven’t bought much but have done a tremendous amount of looking. I have some pearls for Marian for our anniversary on the 12th of June; The Ed Wright’s in Granville have the same anniversary date as ours and I’m thinking of writing to Franci Steckle to have her cook up a party for Marian and the Wrights. And I’d send a package to the Steckles with Marian’s gift inside and also some small gifts for the Wrights and Steckles! It’s sorta complicated, but I think it would be fun. I think Marian had fun when I sent her birthday gift to Betty Felt. I sorta hate to think of her opening the gift when she’s all alone – makes it all the harder for her!

		Have been sneaking this letter while at work today – have some other things to type right now so I guess I’d better get at them. May add a note later. So long, Folks,

								Love,
									Dick
[Added at bottom of page in pen]
Monday Evening,
		Hi! Am trying out a new pen I bought at the PX tonight – didn’t need a pen but I drew out the privilege of buying one so I went ahead probably will sell it to someone!
		This afternoon the package which you got ready in Granville the week end you were down here arrived – everything was in good shape – thanks a lot. Have a good “outlet” for the mille And I was just about out of shaving cream of the kind I like – can’t but that kind here. Like the toothpaste too – this supply ought to run me until after I leave – hope so anyway!
		Nightly letter to Marian now – So long, Love
								Dick!

Tokyo, Japan		
Saturday, May 4, 1946
Dear Mother,
		
		This is addressed to you, Mother, because it’s intended as a special Mother’s Day greeting. I certainly wish it were possible this year for me, for Marian and me, to extend this greeting in person, but unfortunately that cannot happen; we can only take heart that in all probability I shall be coming home before too awfully long a time has elapsed. One of the things I’m most looking forward to when I once am out of the Army is to be able to visit with you folks a little more frequently and for longer periods of time than has been the case during the past few years.

		I know that I too infrequently have told you, Mother and Dad, how much it has always meant to me and to Marian and me to have had your encouragement and never-failing support during all the years. I simply can’t tell you how much easier it has made things and how much more pleasant. The more people I get acquainted with, the more I see what their parents have done for them, the more I realize how marvelous you two have been, and I shall never be able to adequately thank you or repay you. The best I can do is to tell you I am aware of how fine you’ve been and to tell you I am appreciative. 

		Have been reasonably busy this week. The Colonels are growing a little impatient to be on their way to China but from the looks of the situation there with their Civil War flaring up more and more it may be some time before the trip can be made. I’m beginning to wonder if perhaps they’ll not decide to go to Australia before they go to China but they’ve said nothing about that!

		Was very, very pleased to receive a nice long letter from John this week. He sounded as though things were going pretty well for him – he’s pleased to be back at work six days a week and I sure can’t blame him. From what he said in his letter I suspect he’s visiting you this very week-end. Certainly wish I could join you.

		The four of us are planning a little week-end outting this weekend beginning, as a matter of fact, in about three hours. We’re going by train down to a place which is on the north side of Mt. Fuji. It’s a resort area of considerable renown; there’s supposed to be some very beautiful scenery down that way – lakes, and mountains, and forests! Right at the moment the weather is beautiful – hope it continues that way. Have color film in my camera right at the moment and it takes bright sun to get good pictures!

		Right now I have several matters to take care of in preparation for this afternoon’s trip so I think I’d better be at them.

		Happy Mother’s Day, Mother, and happy day to you too, Dad
								Much love,
										Dick

Tokyo, Japan			
Wednesday, May 15, 1946	
Dear Mother and Dad and John,

		Well, it’s the end of the day after! The day after I heard that that my discharge application has gone through successfully! Twas yesterday afternoon about 3:#0 when the phone rang; Colonel Northrup answered it and told me the call was for me. It was the First Sergeant calling from the Orderly Room, he said (and these were thrilling words) “Mahard, come on over to the Orderly Room right way your discharge has been approved and you need to fill out some forms in connection with it.” You can imagine how I felt to hear that news. My heart was up in my throat and my hands trembled! I went over to the Orderly Room and found out what I had to do – had to submit another formal request for discharge and sign it and furnish them with the same information concerning my military record I sent to Washington in the first place.

		When I got back to the office and told the Colonels, they shook hands and said that they were happy that it had worked out successfully for me. Then they asked me what I wanted to do with regard to the trip to Australia which is scheduled to begin on May 25! Well, I was on the horns of a dilemma believe me. The Colonels said that if I wanted them to they’d call up and have the discharge delayed until the middle of June and then I could go on the trip. They said it was up to me. I was in a stew and about all I could do was pace the floor. They didn’t insist on knowing my answer right away and so I stewed about it all last evening and I woke up early this morning thinking about it still. Finally I decided – decided not to go on the Australia trip! As it is now the discharge is a bird in the hand and I’m afraid that if the Colonels ask for the delay that the bird will get into the bush and I’ll not be able to get him back again. There were other considerations too. It was hard to think of staying over another month when I have the chance to leave within a few days. There’s the element of danger on the Australian trip – it’s funny, once a person has an Army discharge in sight he feels like going to bed and staying there just so that nothing will happen to him before he gets a chance to obtain that discharge! If I gave up the Australian trip there’s a chance one of the other fellows – Ed or Larry – will have a chance to go; I felt a little like a dog in a manger having the discharge and hanging onto the trip too. Of course, I feel badly about giving up the trip because it would have been a marvelous one, but in the long run I think the decision I made will be wide.

		It was funny – about an hour after I received the telephone call I received a letter from Marian with a copy of a letter enclosed which Colonel Hinshaw in Washington had written to Dr. Hollis, the Office of Education representative. If I’d have gotten that letter before the telephone call, I would have been quite certain that the discharge had gone through because Colonel Hinshaw said in the letter that the matter had been turned over to the Adjutant General’s office. I suppose it was the Adjutant General’s office which got in touch with Headquarters here and had them order my discharge.

		What’s the next move? Well, in from three to five days I’ll be ordered to report to the Replacement Depot in Yokohama. There’ll be some processing to do there –  guess they take some of our equipment away from us and check some of our records. When that is done, we sit and wait for a ship. We may wait a day or two days or twenty days. However, I think that with so few men going out, I’ll probably not be ordered to the Depot until there’s a ship due in or better to say due out! The voyage across the ocean will take from nine to fifteen days depending upon the kind of ship. We’ll land either at Seattle or San Francisco and it’s hard to tell which it’ll be. From there we ought to move out rather quickly; I should be sent back to Atterbury and the final steps there take three days or so! I suppose it’s foolish to make any predictions but I told Marian in a letter I wrote this afternoon that with luck I’d make it between the 5th and 10th of June. Even with bad luck I should make it by June 20th. The biggest “nigger in the woodpile” is the ship situation here! I heard a rumor this afternoon that the first ship is not due to leave until June 1; can take a rumor or leave it!

		Guess that’s about the story. If I do make it by the middle of June or there-abouts I don’t know what we will decide to do this summer. I hardly think it wise to plan on field work in California because I’m very doubtful that we’ll be able to take delivery on our car in time; that’s one thing and then too I don’t feel that I’m ready to undertake the work. Should make more preparation, do more library work, etc. Also I’m not anxious to be away from home again right away. Marian’s job enters the picture and of course the financial problem always rears its ugly head. Quite an ideal thing would be for me to try to land a job teaching the summer session at Ohio State; I could commute back and forth from Granville. Well, we’ll wait and see – this is one problem Marian and I will not have to decide by means of 20 days apart exchanges of letters!

		Received your letter of May 5th today, Mother. Sorry to hear about the frosts; darn it all anyway. There’s only one thing – it seems to me that in spite of the fact that the fruit farmers always say, “the frost took everything” there always seems to be quite a lot of stuff when the season comes round!

		Glad to hear about the apartment you were able to rent, John. Sounds right ritzy. Gosh, of course I don't care about the blanket – glad you can use it!

		Golly sakes, Mother, did I forget to tell you that the package which you sent on March 25 from Granville arrived safely sometime about April 26th. I’m sorry – I thought sure I wrote about it. Thank you a lot – we all enjoyed the candy and I’m certain that some of the Japanese here are very grateful that you sent it too!

		We went out to the International Trials this morning. There wasn’t so very much going on but it was very interesting. Saw old Tojo and all the rest of the “boys” who were a pretty sad looking lot believe me! Today the defense attorneys were trying to prove that the indictments were improperly written and that there was no existing “body of law” under which the men could be tried. The tribunal listened politely but, of course, this argument will never be allowed.

		Guess that’s about all for this time and perhaps this is all from Tokyo. ‘Spec I’ll be seeing you in about a month – what do you think of that! Certainly consider myself one very lucky fellow! Certainly have no cause to complain about the way this whole discharge deal has gone so far. 
	So long, Folks,
											Love,
												Dick

4th Replacement Depot
15 miles out in country
Dear Mother and Dad,							from Yokohama
									        Saturday May 25, 1946
	Here I sit – waitin’ for a ship to come in. Came down here last Monday on the 20th and had high hopes that we would be “processed” and leave within a couple of days to board a ship which was scheduled to sail yesterday the 24th. However I and six of the other fellows of the twelve men who came down from Tokyo together was held here because we hadn’t had a small pox vaccination recently enough! About the middle of this month the order came through that all men were to be given another vaccination but our dispensary didn’t get around to doing it and that was our tough luck. They vaccinated us on Wednesday and today they’re supposed to check the thing to make certain it took – mine did take. It swelled up and turned red and itched just as it is supposed to!
	Now the only information we have as to when we may leave is a constantly recurring rumor that a ship is due in on Monday the 27th and it scheduled to leave on June 1. If that’s so it will mean we’ll leave a week from today. Golly that seems like a long time – time goes very slowly here these is absolutely nothing to do except read and lie around on our cots!
Drew K.P. on Thursday from 6:00 until 12:00 but it was not hard work – suspect we may draw it again before we leave!
	Almost all of the men who are in the depot now are men getting out on dependency discharges – there are a few other “convenience of the Gov’t” discharges like mine. Right at the moment dependency discharges seem to be very easy to get. Almost anyone with two children is getting out and some fellows with one child are making it and some single men with dependent parents too. I think they’re carrying in a bit too far one of these days they’ll shut down on them and then even the real needy cases will not be favorably considered. That’s the Army always from one extreme to another!
	This depot is located in a former Japanese Army Officers training camp and it’s really an elaborate place so far as Japanese standards are concerned – quite nice as far as American standards of Army Camps go also We live in a huge barracks of which there are several here but the barracks is divided into small rooms accomodating twelve men. Our latrine, washrooms, and mess hall are located outside the barracks. There is a nice Red Cross bldg and a good theatre and a gym where we play come ping pong Have pitched some horse shoes also. 
	I probably could get a pass to go into Tokyo this weekend but I don’t know what the boys plan to do and it they happen to be gone – there would be nothing to do or no one to see especially. I’m afraid too that they will have sent all my mail back. I didn’t have foresight enough to have them hold it for a week or some in case my departure was delayed.
	In spite of the delay getting away from here I still think I’m lucky to get away from here on my discharge as early as June. I hadn’t dared hope that it would be earlier than July. Well, I certainly will make it in time for the peaches. Now I’m wondering if there’ll be some strawberries when I get there!								probably Seattle
	If we should leave here around or on June 1 that’ll put us on the West Coast ^ about June 12th. If the rail roads are running, we should get away from there pretty quickly. With luck I should be at Camp Atterbury shortly after June 15. Have no notion what Marian can plan to do I will try to call her from the West Coast. In as much as Commencement at Denison is on June 17 she might be able to have that week off as one of her vacation weeks but on the other hand that may be a busy week for her and the Dean might want her to take the next week. I guess I’ve been thinking that she would split her vacation – take one week or two when I get home and then 3 weeks or two later in the summer just before school begins!
	I suspect Marian is having quite a frantic time trying to figure out what to do about moving etc. It’ll all be a mystery to me because I probably won’t be able to hear from her for almost three weeks or until we arrived in Seattle or San Francisco probably Seattle!
	So long, Folks, hope to see you in less than a month.
								Love,
									Dick

Sunday June 2, 1946
Dear Mother and Dad,
		Still at the replacement depot but will be leaving here probably sometime early this afternoon for Yokohama to board the ship the GOUCHER VICTORY which will sail for the states either late tonight or early tomorrow morning. I talked to a fellow who previously worked at the port in Yokohama and he told me the GOUCHER V. makes the voyage in 11 days. If that’s true, we should get into Seattle sometime June 12th– perhaps I’ll be able to call Marian as an anniversary present. From June 3rd to June 12th may not seem to be 11 days but it will be because when we’re in mid-ocean and cross the International Date Line we repeat a day!
		I was very disappointed to miss sailing on the MARINE SERPENT which sailed yesterday. All the other fellows of my group went on that ship but they were all going on dependency discharges and when the orders for the ship were made up they didn’t include the relatively few of us going home on “occupational” discharges! Of the 700 men sailing for home on the GOUCHER VICTORY only nine are on “occupational” discharges so you see they’re pretty rare!
		After we land in Seattle we’ll hang around for a couple of days (hope it’s no more than that) waiting for rail transportation to be arranged through to Chicago and thence to Atterbury. We’ll probably have a layover in Chicago and will call you from there if at all possible. I’m guessing right now that everything should be finished at Atterbury by Saturday June 22! You know a lot more than I do about whether Marian will meet me at the Camp or not. It would be nice if she could but I know it will depend on whether she can get the time off and whether she’ll have transportation available. I have my fingers crossed hoping that by some stroke of luck we’ll have our car by then but I’, afraid there’s very little chance!
		I’m certainly glad this two weeks waiting period here at the Depot is just about finished. Can’t complain though because my luck has been marvelous otherwise. Hope the trip home comes off without mishap. Am a little afraid I’ll suffer from sea sickness but have my fingers crossed!
		That’s about the story from here – When I next get in touch with you it’ll be from the good old UNited States – it’ll seem good to me after only five months overseas; how must it have seemed to some of the fellows with two or three years!
		So long, Folks, won’t be long until I see you —
									Love,
										Dick

Thursday Afternoon	
June 13, 1946		
Dear Mother and Dad,
		The U.S. is in sight! We first saw land about 8:00 this morning – the mountains of Vancouver Island which is in Canada. Now we are in the Strait of Juan de Fuca; about ½ way through the strait opposite the city of Port Angeles we’ll stop for a while to pick up a pilot who will take the ship through the channels of Puget Sound to Seattle. The news as they tell it to us now is that we’ll arrive in Seattle about 11:00 tonight but we’ll not be able to get off the ship until tomorrow morning.
		Voyage almost finished – if we get in at 11:00 tonight it will have taken us 11 days (24 hour days) and 8 hours – the total distance travelled: just a little over 5000 miles! Seems like we’ve been on the ship a long time and yet the time has passed quite swiftly mostly because I have kept very busy. The first night we came aboard at Yokohama the put up a notice that they wanted volunteers as typists in the Special Services office. It meant staying away from K.P. so I volunteered. The job finally led to printing a daily ship’s newspaper which we called the GOUCHER GROWL. Had a lot of fun doing it – wrote quite a few articles, cut mimeograph stencils, printed headlines, etc. etc. I really got to be sort of the boss believe it or not! And, as I say, keeping busy made the time pass. Also kept my mind off being sea sick. Did not really get sick at any time but for the first 2 or 3 days I had a funny unpleasant headache and a felling of nausea a lot of the time. We really had very smooth weather a lot of the time. Once for a period of 30 hours or so we passed through an area of large swells which caused the ship to roll enough to make dishes slide around on the table!
		Tomorrow we’ll be taken to Ft. Lawton, which is located right within the city of Seattle. The big job they’ll do there is arrange transportation for us to our separation centers – Atterbury in my case. We’re not supposed to have to stay at Lawton any longer than 72 hours and it should be less than that. Am hoping to be started by train across the country by Sunday sometime. If that happens we should be in Chicago by Thursday and Atterbury Friday (June 21) Looks as though my hopes of making it out by the 22nd will not be realized but it shouldn’t be long after that.
		Guess that’s about all for now – wanted to get this written so I can mail it just as soon as we go ashore tomorrow.
		Seemed a long ways from home last summer when I was out this way but now it seems like I’m almost home! Am afraid thought that the train ride will seem long.
		So long, Folks – see you before too long
						Love
							Dick
254th day [boxed in]					           	           Tuesday Morning Jan 1, 1946
8:00 a.m.		
Good Morning, Darling,
			Has that New Year arrived there yet? No? Well it’ll be there pretty soon. At the moment we’re at elevation 8000 feet and we’re a couple of hours or a little more from Tokyo. The navigator was just back here and he said that the pilot has agreed to fly over the city a little bit to take a look at it providing the weather is not too bad so we’ve got our fingers crossed hoping for clear skies. The airport where we land is several miles south of Tokyo and if we go directly there we’ll not see the city at all from the air.
			If we do fly over the city I shall try to take some pictures from the plane’s windows on the chance that some of them might show a little something/ We’re told that Fujiyama shows up nicely on the way in will try to photograph it.
			We were flying above an unbroken bank of clouds this morning when the sun came up but now the cloud bank is broken in places and one can see the sea.
			There are only 16 passengers on the plane – 2 are officers, one is a scientific consultant (physicist, a Japanese), and there are 13 enlisted men. I don’t know to what duty the other enlisted men are assigned. They appear to be a little bit better group of men than the average lot. 
			New Years Eve back at the field at Guam was quite unexciting. At twelve o’clock there was a little shouting and someone shot off a few signal flares and there was some shooting in the far distance, but that was about all.

Wednesday Morning Jan 2, 1946
11:00 a.m. Tokyo Time	
My dearest One;
		We’re at our office – there’s much to write but right now I haven’t the opportunity. I want to send my address at once however – here it is. What a whopper. Could you buy a bunch of air mail envelopes and type the address on them and send them to Mother and Dad? I’m certain they would appreciate it very much.
		The Rose Bowl game is coming over the radio seems very funny. Colder than the dickens here yesterday – a little warmer today but temperatures still around freezing.

Pvt. R.H. Mahard 35985568
Intell. Div., OCE, GHQ, AFPAC		OCE = Office Chief Engineers
Advance Echelon, Tokyo, Japan		GHQ = General Headquarters
A.P.O. 500, San Francisco, California	AFPAC = Army Forces Pacific
[address is written in a box]

										Yours
											Dick

Tam - start on page 60 and go to 250; I will do 250 to end

255th Day 							Wednesday Night, Jan. 2, 1945

My Dearest One,
			I Scarcely know where to start to tell the long story. Perhaps I’d better begin at the beginning - that’s always a safe thing to do. I’ll trace the events in skeleton form and then fill in the details afterwards.

			We landed at Atsugi airport (about 30 miles from downtown Tokyo) at about 9:00 (Tokyo time) yesterday morning. Before our baggage was taken off the plane and the bus came along to take us into the city an hour had passed. The ride in from the airport was very, very interesting. We passed through some quiet rural areas with their tiny and very neat fields and saw some very fascinating dwelling places. It was difficult at first to believe that what we were seeing was really true - the farms looked like pictures from a book and the people appeared to be fugitives from a Madame Butterfly opera company because yesterday was their New Year’s day also and also in Japan on that day everyone has a birthday; consequently the children and the women were dressed in their best and very colorful finery!

			We arrived finally in Yokahama and began to see the signs of the destruction by the fire-bombing. I can’t really describe it to you - at first it doesn’t seem real either - for blocks and blocks and miles and miles - we guessed it to be about eight miles - along the road we traveled and as far back from the road as we could see at least 3/4 of the buildings had been destroyed. It’s very amazing for often times all the places in a block may be destroyed save one and very peculiarly that one may appear to be a very inflammable building. The people have picked up a lot of the metal scrap and many have used fragments of corrugated iron sheeting to build up a little shack and there they live, the children play around the door, and the tea pot boils on a tiny fire. It was bitter cold yesterday - the temperature must have been about 28 degrees or so and there was a biting wind - and yet we saw many people in wooden clogs (the ones held on by a strap which runs between their big toe and their second toe) with no stockings of any sort!
			
			We saw the same kind of distraction all the way into downtown Tokyo. The bus delivered us to the A.T.C. Terminal and we were disappointed that there was no one there to meet us. As long as the other fellows had arrived on Monday, we thought they’d meet us & help us get settled down. T’was not so (we discovered later that Ed. had inquired about us but when he found hout we hadn’t arrived, he concluded that we had not gotten away from Guam). However we managed. We went to the Dai Ichi building where General MacArthur has his headquarters and after telling our story in about five different places, we finally found the right person. He sent us over to another building - the Finance Building - where we are to live. We couldn’t be assigned to a room right then because of course it was a holiday, but they put us up as a “casual”. After Larry and I got settled down a little bit we went out for a walk to try to find the Captains. We asked at a couple of places where we thought they might possibly be billeted but they weren’t there. However, just as we were leaving one place we ran into Captain Shute on the street. He welcomed us cordially, but had little to tell us except to meet him at 9:00 this morning. By that time we were so cold that we went back to our quarters which, incidentally, were just a little warmer and had a very good New Year’s dinner - turkey, mashed potatoes, peas, dressing, gravy, fruit cake, mince pie, ice cream, bread and gobs of butter. (We eat from trays but have to use our own knife, fork, spoon and cup from our mess gear and wash them after we finish - don’t have to wash the trays just our own stuff) Right after we finished eating we sent a cable home. Remember to write and tell me when the cable arrived will you! It cost me 13 yen to send it - there are 15 yen to the dollar!

			After we got back to where we were quarters (in the same building where we ate and sent the cable) Ed came along. He told us some dope about where we would be living etc. etc. We sat around and talked for a while and then Larry and I decided to go to bed because we were completely tired. It was only about 8:00 and there was a lot of noise in the room, but nevertheless I soon went to sleep and slept quite soundly until about 5:30 this morning. Lay awake a while and then decided to get up. The only place in the building where there is hot water available is in the basement where the showers are located so I went down there to shave. Drew some water from a shower into a helmet I found, sat the helmet in a regular lavatory basin (no hot water connected to the basin, or course) and had myself quite a comfotable shave although the temberature of the air in the room was pretty low - could see my breath without any trouble.

			When I got back from shaving, I got Larry up and we had an early and very good breakfast - I had three fried eggs, orange juice (canned), oatmeal (with thinned condensed milk–not bad), cinnamon roll, bread and butter, fresh tangerines (native Japanese grown ones), coffee (condensed milk-am learning to like it!) After breakfast we fussed around with our junk - more or less arranged our duffel bags. Finally came over to our office about 8:30. The captains were here and after a while they went into conference they told is that it had been decided that they would not be getting set up in a office themeselves until about the 20th of this month meanwhile until then the three of us are to work around this other office. Don’t quite know yet what we will have to do, but think that my duties to a large extent will involve typing! But that doesn’t surprise anyone does it? Weren’t we pretty sure all along that this assignment was going to lead to that?

			We were given the afternoon off to get settles down in our quarters and dinally managaed it. We still are not all in the same room, but we think we will be very soon because one of the fellows in a bed next to Larry’s and mine is going to be going home.

			Later this afternoon, we went for a little walk around the city. I’ll write about some of the things there are to see in another letter.
			Have been working on this letter at the office tonight. Right now though a couple of boys have offered to buy me a bottle of beer and I think I’ll take them up on it.

			I’m afraid that this letter hasn’t told the entire story very well but I’ll get it all told very soon. Oh, golly Hon, I wish I were going to be getting some letters from you a little sooner than I am - get the letters here just ass soon as you possibly can, won’t you?

		Love you so very much!

				Your Dick forever






























		256th day							January 3, 1946
									Tokyo, Japan
Dearest One,
			Going to try tonight to write a letter which will please me a little more than the one I wrote last night. There was os much to say, and I’m afraid I didn’t say it very well, but sooner or later I’ll manage to explain the situation here so that it will mean a little something to you.

			Today’s story is a relatively simple one t orelate. I got up early again and went downstairs to the shower room and drew some warm water in the helmet I found and did my shaving. It;s a cold journey to make after arising from a warm bed but it’s a dickens of a lot better than shaving in cold water. For breakfast we has to come over to the Dai Ichi building which is about five long blocks from the Finance Bld’g where we live. However, first we had to come up here to the office right next door to the Dai Ichi called the Forestry Building. Considerable stair climbing or elevator riding is necessary in all these trips because our office is on the fifth floor and the cafeteria is on the seventh floor (we live on the fourth floor of the Finace building)

			After we brought our utensils back to the office but didn’t stay to work. They has told us yesterday that we could have today off to get settled. We didn’t really need time but took it anyway. We spent most of the morning walking around the city or what is left of the city. The “5th Avenue” of Tokyo is a street called Ginza; we walked along it. Most of the buildings which are still standing are completely gutted by fire and a great many buildings are gone completely. However, the owners or someone else are making, a “comeback”; they’re begining to erect small single story wooden buildings is very interesting. They’re being built almost entirely without nails very nearly as barns were built in the midwest of the U.S. around 1850 or so. The beams are notched and jointed so that they fit together and then are fastened by drilling a hole and inserting a wooden peg. The wood from which these buildings is being built 
is largely cedar. The boys and I remarked that in a few months if this kind of construction continues, Tokyo will look about as it must have looked a hundred years ago. At the present time there is a very little for sale in any shops and what is being displayed is pretty shoddy looking to my way of thinking. A lot of the stuff looks as though it had been manufactures in the cheapest fashion ans sent here to Tokyo to be sold to unsuspecting G.I.s. It’s funny the stuff looks just about like the cheap stuff the Japs formerly manufactured for export to the U.S. The Army operates a big P.X. in the downtown section where they have some very nice things for sale, but a person has to sweat out a line several blocks long to get into the place. After we’ve been here a while and had a chance to accumulate a few yen perhaps we’ll try to get in the place.

			After dinner we again did some wandering around the city and we’re more and more appalled at the destruction. It’s very peculiar - it almost looks as though our Army had picked out the buildings they wanted to occupy and said to the bombers, “be careful not to hurt that one!” It looks that way because right beside the DaiIchi building and the Forestry building and Finance building are other buildings completely destroyed. We can look out the windows of the room in which we live and see destroyed buildings on three sides!

			Our meals continue to be very excellent. We had steak for dinner today and roast beef for supper tonight. Had Parkerhouse type rolls which were very flavorful. Tonight there was a big bin of apples and tangerines sitting in the mess hall and a person could take as many as he wished. If the meals continue to be so good, I’m afraid that weight of mine will go up and up! I can’t help but think though that it’s a dream and can’t last.

			The weather was clear and cold during most of the day today, but this evening it clouded up and is now raining just a little bit. The building where we live is quite cold, however, our room happens to be a little warmer than the average because the sun shines in so nicely. They’re trying to get radiators installed in the place and are making progress. In many of the buildings here in the main part of town the Japanese had completely removed the radiators and all the plumbing to melt it down for scrap metal - that’s how bad off they were. One fellow told us that it had been done even before last winter (1944-45); I don’t know how the people managed to work in the buildings without any heat at all, but they do seem to be able to stand a lot of cold - makes me shiver to see them.

			We haven’t seen General MacArthur yet but we have his car outside the Daiichi building a couple of times and a crowd always gathers - Japs and soldiers alike to see him come out. Would like to catch a glimpse of him one of these days. Believe me he’s really the big boss around here and make no mistake about that!

			Incidentally the U.S. Geological Survey me have offices in the same building where ours is located. They’re on the second floor. We haven't seen any of them yet, but we probably will one of these days. I suppose Ginny Neuschel will work there. Holy smoke, how I wish you could change places with her!

			Have gotten some new clothes since I arrived. I traded in that old field jacket for another one of those good ones, traded in my blouse for one of the short “Eisenhower” models, and was issued a sweater which will be excellent to wear to work. The attitude the supply sergeant takes with regard to issuing clothes here is certainly different than the attitude they take in the states.

			I’m certainly wondering how long it’s going to be before we receive any mail. Thought today that I might cable my adress - may still do it because you’ll probably mot receive the letter I sent containing the address before Jan. 10 or so and then it’ll take your letters ten more days to get here. Did I tell you that they will not guarantee that a cable will go through in less than 48 hours? But then that’s some quicker than mail, isn’t it?

			Guess I didn’t say that I went to a movie tonight. The movies are shown in the auditorium of the DaiIchi building and are free - the picture was called “The Hidden Eye” and it was pretty poor. They have movies only three nights a week there, but they also have movies at the Finance building on three other nights so except for one night there’s a movie to see.

			Think now that it’s time to stop and go home and get to bed. Have to arise early to get in my shaving ritual and tomorrow we start work at long last.

			And so goodnight, my dearest one, just because you’re so far away I don’t love you less - love you more and will continue to love you more and more forever.

								Your,
				
									Dick






















	257th day 								Tokyo, Japan
										January 4, 1946

My dearest Marian,

			My day today was similar to a great many of your days when you were working in Dayton. I spent about eight hours doing two hours of work which involved typing a rather long “first indorsement” on a letter and making some “true and certified” copies of some orders. But, I guess I did learn a little bit about military correspondence and that’s what I’m supposed to be doing. In between times I managed to get a letter written to Mother 



































This will be our divider!!!!! Leave this page blank

		344th day							Monday, April1, 1946

Dear Marian,

		This will perhaps come as a shock to you but I’ve decided to call off my application for discharge and have enlisted in the Army for three years! I could have had furlough home, but decided that it wouldn’t be worth the bother.

		AND THAT – MY DEAREST MARIAN – IS THE MOST COLOSSAL APRIL FOOL’S DAY STATEMENT WHICH WAS EVER MADE!

		I’m tired tonight and for a very strange reason – I’ve been working hard all day! And I want you to know that I’m not accustomed to it. The tips of my fingers are sore from continual typing (you’ll laugh) and my shoulders ache and my bottom is tender from so much sitting! There was sort of a rush on all day – first there was the monthly report to get out – original and seven of four sheets, then there was some correspondence to take care of, some envelopes to address, and this afternoon I had to make 30 copies for Colonel Berry of the orders which were written on him and Colonel Northrup. I made them in sets of ten, I was quite proud of myself because I thought I had gotten through the four “runs” with only a single error; then I discovered that I had left out a whole phrase on one of the runs – I had forgotten to type in “Chief of Staff” under a man’s name. Well, I decided that was easily corrected so I put the carbons all back in and got the assemblage back in the machine. Typed in the words “Chief of Staff” and then, yes, you guessed it, I had the put the carbons in backwards! Oh, well, live and learn! 

		Don’t know for certain just when the Colonels and the Captains and Ed and General Loper of OCE and Colonel Hoehl of Air Forces will be taking off, but Wednesday is the day most frequently talked of. Think General Loper is the one who is holding up the plans right at the moment. [arrow pointing to ‘General Loper’] ED’S TRAVELLING IN FAST COMPANY

		Sent a cable to you this morning. Theoretically it should reach you about eight o’clock Monday evening, April 1 your time. How much did it miss? The text was as follows: COLONEL INDORSED APPLICATION GOES WASHINGTON NOW AM OPTIMISTIC SEND FLOWERS RACHELS HOME FOR MARKEY AND ED AND US LOVE YOU DICK – is that about the way it came through. Am wondering if you’ll think the “Markey” is a mistake, or have you become aware through my references to her that that is what Ed always calls her. As a matter of fact, Markey and all of you probably are aware of that too. But back to the flowers, I thought of the idea first and asked Ed what he thought and he was enthusiastic. I explained that it would be more convenient for you to send them because the telegram wouldn’t cost quite so much and beside Alice will probably keep you pretty well informed about when Rachel plans to return home. I thought it would be nice to send the flowers to her home because she’ll have more flowers in the hospital than she’ll be able to enjoy. Ed wrote to Markey last night that I was sending the cable and she’ll be writing to you to find out what their share of the cost will be. 
[written in the margin] IN OTHER WORDS MARKEY AND ED MARIAN AND DICK 
		By the way, Larry got his telephone call all approved today. He’s to make it at 9:40 in the morning of April 12; that’ll be 7:40 in the evening of the 11th in Baltimore. Larry figures that that is about two or three days after Rachel will have arrived home from the hospital. Golly, I hope the connection turns out to be a good one – I don’t know what kind of a guarantee they give!

		I was sorta hoping that there would be some word from the office of the Headquarters Commandant today with regard to that memorandum which they have to fill out regarding my records – the memo which has to go in with the Colonel’s first indorsement of my discharge application. But there was no word – I think, however, in this case no news is good news because if they were going to question the think they’d have probably done that before now. It looks to me as though the thing is now being “bucked” to the Personnel Officer and he’s probably trying to find my records. It’ll be a minor miracle – perhaps a major one – if my records haven’t been lost or at least part of them. Lost records seem to be a rule in the Army – one of the least frequently broken rules too! But, at any rate, I’m hoping that the memorandum will be back in a few days and then I can send the application and the first indorsement on its way to Washington.

		Of course, there’s also Prof. Kerr’s letter which is missing and I’ll have to wait for it. Let’s see you cabled that that letter arrived in Granville on the 24th of March. If you took some action by Monday, March 25 and if the letter gets aboard a plane, I should be hearing about the middle of this week – I hope! Wow, hope that letter doesn’t get placed aboard a ship the way that Feb. 8 letter which I wrote to the Dean did.

		As you’ve already guessed there was no mail here today. I suspect that the planes were all grounded because of that typhoon which has been messing around to the south of here. Hope the storm soon blows itself out! Incidentally the main office of APO 500 as of today moved to the north end first floor of the Mitsubishi Main Building (our billet) so now we just have to go across the alley to pick up our mail. Formerly as you know, we had to go four or five blocks down to the Dai Ichi Bldg. The new post office is very nice and spacious – the other one was very, very crowded!

		Ed has some excitement today. Colonel Duke for whom he’s been working at OCE asked him what he’d have to have in the way of a promotion before he’d consider transferring to OCE to continue the report writing. Ed was all set for the Colonel and said that he’d consider coming down if they’d make him a Warrant Officer! Ed thought for sure that the Colonel would laugh at the suggestion, but he never batted an eye – instead he said, “Well, we’ll see what can be done!” And he put one of the Captains down at OCE to work on the deal at once. And then Ed was in a dilemma – if the Colonel should succeed in getting him a Warrant it would me that he’d be in the Army at least two years (he’d be in the same category as officers) and Ed couldn’t decide whether it would be worth his while (there would have been no question in my mind). To make the story short – this afternoon the Captain found out that it would be impossible for them to railroad the thing through even though they did want to do it. So Ed’s problem was solved for him. Wouldn’t that have been some promotion though – from Pvt. (no, T/5) to Warrant Officer! Just shows how rare ability is in the Army! They probably have never had anyone down at the OCE write reports before who could actually use the English language. I think Colonel Duke himself is the only other college man down there and, of course, he’s a “trade school” product (West Point)! 

		And now I’m at the end of my punching for the day – in fact I’m really “punchy” myself. Larry is bound for home – ha, what did I say – home – and I’m going with him. Will add a note below in the morning. Goodnight, Sweetheart, I love you truly and dearly.

								Your,
									Dick
[handwritten]
Tuesday Morn:
	Looks like it’s going to be a nice day Today is pay day too maybe I’ll be able to send home the price of the tail light!
		Love you much
				D.

			345th day				Tuesday, April 2, 1946

My dearest Marian,

		Just home from the movies – “The Road to Utopia” with Bing Crosby and Bob Hope. Really very funny. Those two certainly make a pair who can get away with gags which from anyone else would sound pretty bad! Have you seen the picture? Well at funny thing happened – if you’ve seen it, you’ll remember right toward the last a crack opens in the earth and Bing ends up on one side and Dorothy Lamour and Bob on the other. Well tonight just as the crack was opening up, the reel broke and we had to wait about five minutes for them to fix it! Some place for the thing to break!

		Was reasonably busy all day today again. Did find some time this morning to type out a letter to Mother and Dad and John. Late writing to them this week. I spent most of the afternoon typing out a large blank for Captain Dolk . It was one of those mean jobs with about five hundred little boxes in which a lot of words and numbers etc. had to be fitted and of course the Army had managed to design the blank so that it was just too wide to fit into the typewriter effectively – it could be rolled in to the machine, but it was so wide that far over to the left and far over to the right, one couldn’t type. I managed to type first one side by shifting the paper way over in the opposite direction and than type the other side. That kind of a job just about drives me nuts. Then too, it was a strictly personal job and I sorta resent having to do that sort of thing – makes me feel just like a cheap servant. Both Captain Shute and Captain Dolk have a way of making us feel. that way quite frequently although I suspect that we often feel that way because we're overly sensitive. 

		Received three letters from you today – yours of Mar 20,21,22! It was nice to hear that my letters were coming through to you finally. I'm anxious to receive your letter of the 19th – that was the day you received nine letters. Your big week at receiving letters turned out to be the same as mine. 

		I was certainly interested to receive the memo which the faculty committee took to Cleveland with them for the meeting with the Board of Trustees. Boy, it sounds as though the Faculty is really up on its ear. Shall be very anxious to hear what happened when it happens. I certainly am very curious to know what sort of an offer they will make me for next year, IF I'm destined to be back next year. Those “real” wages statistics of Gordon's certainly are impressive. I would think that a group of men like the Trustees who must themselves be men of pretty high salaries couldn't help but be impressed with the very low amount paid the men of the faculty. In fact I'd think they'd wonder how in the dickens the Faculty manages to live on such low salaries. I'm wondering though how much the Trustees will figure they can do about the situation! It takes a lot of money to bring about a raise in Faculty wages because it's a cost which goes on year after year! 

		The visit you had from Beulah was nice. Bet you were surprised all right. It was lucky that the Dean happened to be out of town so that you could get away from the office!
		I was a little Disturbed to hear in your letter today – yours of the 21st – thought you were having a somewhat difficult time with your dealings with Mr. Nichol. Too bad that there isn't some way you could explain to him that you want a little more freedom of movement and that you'd be happier if he didn't do quite so many nice things for you – too bad you can't tell him that without hurting him, but darned if I know how you can. I know just how he feels – he's getting such a kick out of having someone to do things for again – he must have had to do almost all of the work during those last years that mrs. Nichol was alive! And I can imagine how much less lonely he is now that you're around. Hon, I can appreciate the situation fully, but, except for what I said a couple letters ago, I don't know what to say about it! 

		I received a letter today from Bill Thurston. He and Shirley are apparently in New York City living with Bill’s Mother. Bill was taking some annual leave from the Survey. He said in the letter that he had intended to quit, but had been talked into staying on. Is going to be in Washington this summer working on some reports and will probably have to go back to Kentucky to do some field work. In September he plans to begin an educational furlough from the Survey and will attend Harvard or Columbia for a year to finish up his Ph.D. coursework. In the summer of 1947, he goes back on active status with the Survey and begins a project for them which he will be able to use as a dissertation. Sounds as though he has things pretty well worked out for himself. Bill also writes that he was in New York having his allergies checked (this will interest Franci); he says he got something in his food one night recently which knocked him entirely out – he has taken to carrying a hypodermic needle and adrenalin with him! I'll send Bill’s letter on to you when I've answered it! 

		Sweetheart, today marks an anniversary. Four months ago we said goodbye there at that station in Newark – that's a moment I’ll remember as long as I live – remember it with Dread. Oh, I hope we'll never have another goodbye like that one. Sometimes the four months seem to have gone rapidly and sometimes it seems ages and ages ago! How much longer do you suppose it will be. On August 2 it'll be twice as long as now. Suppose I’ll have made it by then? Oh, my darling, I certainly do hope so. The dream I'm daring to dream right now is that my discharge will have gone through by the first of August. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could have the month for a vacation just before starting work again in September. Incidentally, have you thought when you would take your vacation? How much do you have? A month? Three weeks? You said once, I'm sure, but I've forgotten. [handshift to pen] Has it occurred to you that you might hold off taking your vacation until late in the summer on the chance that I might make it home? How soon do you have to decide when you want your time off. I know of course that it's impossible to make any definite plans, but if I'm to make it at all it will undoubtedly be late in the summer and it would be too bad if you had to work at the time I could be in Michigan. oh well, it's something to think about and dream about. 

		I'm finishing this letter Wednesday morning I was interrupted above and lost my typewriter Captain Dolk is typing out for himself another of the blanks I typed for him yesterday – he didn't have sense enough to realize yesterday that he needed two of them! 

Well, Dolly, it's almost time for the mail and I'd better finish this up so that it can be mailed when we go to the Apo no something? Love you with all my heart. 

Forever yours 
		Dick

			346th day 					April 3, 1946 (Wed)

My Dearest Marian,

		I'm going to start your letter in the afternoon again and see if I have a bit a little bit better luck than I've had the last couple of time I've tried to pull that trick. Seems as though I sit around doing nothing for a couple of hours and then just as soon as I start on a letter of my own about a dozen things need doing. 


Yessir it happened – just as I finished the word “things” above Captain Shute came over and wanted me to do something for him. Have it finished now and will take another whirl at this letter.

 Before I forget it once more here's that withholding receipt on my U.S.G.S. wages back. I wasn't supposed to do anything with that was I. You have never written what you had to do about the Income Tax. What did you file? Did you file just your receipts and if so did you have to pay any tax? Did have anyone help you with it – the return I mean. 

Well, I was interrupted three times while writing the three paragraphs above. Shouldn't be interrupted now though because it's after supper. Will not have many interruptions tomorrow either because in the morning the men leave early for the airport to begin their trip. Right now their plans call for them to be gone until a week from Saturday, but I for one shall be surprised if they make it back by then. They'll be in Okinawa tomorrow night and will fly on to Manila on Friday. Larry and I will have a great time holding down the office. We ought to be able to get away quite a bit – we plan to take turns. I'm hoping to get out into the country to take some pictures of agricultural operations; things ought to be busy now that spring is here! Incidentally, I remember now that I received a letter which told that you had received the film. I shall be anxious for news concerning the developing and concerning the results. Golly, hope that one roll particularly is good. Rachel has sent Larry some of the pictures he took on the way over and they are quite good. Larry reported that Rachel was going to send a copy of the picture he took in Palo Alto of Markey and Ed and me to you – have you ever received it. Perhaps her appointment with the stork interrupted her plans. 

Lying here on my desk is a sample of the “name” stationery which Irene sent you for your birthday. It's nice, Hon, but like you, I miss the “H” in the name. 

Well, today we got paid! I think they made a mistake when they computed the amount which was due me; in fact I know that they made a mistake – they paid me (also Larry and Ed) for the entire month of December at the “overseas” rate when actually we should have received only six days pay at the high rate for that month. They'll probably catch it on the next pay. I was going to keep it a secret and surprise you but instead I'll tell you and let you have the joy of contemplation – I applied for a money order for $90.00 which I'll send to you just as soon as it is made out. What do you think of that? You can use it as you see fit – swell the bank account a little bit or you can take it to Newark and put it down on the Plymouth. The ninety plus your fifty ought to work the balance down toward a thousand. I suppose you're wondering how much pay I drew – the answer is $93.60 (1404 yen). I'm not allowed to send a bigger money order than the amount I have drew so I decided to make it an even ninety! At the new rank (Cpl) I'm hoping to be able to send home forty each month although this next month it may be less than that if they catch the mistake they made this time. Oh, Sweetheart, I've gotten so much of a thrill out of contemplating the new car, and I'm so tickled to be able to contribute this amount toward making it a little more of a reality. 

I want to talk a little more about the car. We’re agreed that we should buy it already equipped with radio and heater. If there are different qualities of radios and heaters, I think we should buy the best. Are we agreed that we will buy the best model – is it the “special”. Do you know exactly how much it differs from the “de-luxe”. If you happen to be in Newark sometime drop into the garage and pick up some literature if it's available and send it to me. I'd enjoy so reading about it and seeing a picture too – don't think I know what the new Plymouths look like. They weren't out when we left the states. Are they selling new cars with five tires or only four – any way of getting five? Incidentally where is the spare tire kept in the five passenger coupe? Is it accessible only from the trunk or can it be gotten out through the front the way the one in Alex could? 

No mail (Whoops! Happened to push the ribbon shift key) from you today. Had a letter from Mother though which was written March 25th! She told about the very nice week-end they had with you. Now I'm anxiously awaiting a letter with your version. I suspect you missed writing one of those nights or perhaps both – is that so? The Folks said that they enjoyed the show on Sat. night a great deal. Mother wrote that she had a new coat – how did you like it – nice that she bought it! Incidentally it sounds as though there's a real beer shortage developing in the States – horrors! Oh, yes, Mother mentioned that they looked at an apartment in which you are interested – is that the one in the house which the Hawes’ are fixing up? Tell me more about it. Big enough for the two of us? I would just checked through your letters and have found your note concerning the Hawes’ place – two Apartments, one three-room and one five-room. The five room one you say may bring as much as $60 – Wow! How much for the three-bedroom? 

No news today again from the Headquarters Commandant on that memo concerning my records. No letter of course from Kerr. I’m growing very anxious to have the application on its way to Washington. Concerning the discharge situation – liked the report that the Senate Military Affairs Committee was apparently of the opinion that the Draft should be continued. As I say, I hate to wish military service onto any one, but on the other hand I hate to wish any additional military service onto me! 

I've just got to write a letter tomorrow to Professor Wright and also one to Dean Richards. I'm certain you will have communicated the news concerning the first indorsement to them, but on the other hand I certainly owe them a letter. 

Just had a little flurry of excitement here. All of a sudden we heard the patter of feet and looked out the window and saw what seemed to be dozens of Japanese Policemen running toward the near-by Tokyo Station. We went out and investigated and discovered that there had been an incident at the station involving some Chinese and Japanese. One of the Japanese had been knifed by the Chinese and the police had attempted to arrest them (the Chinese)  they got into an argument and somebody called out the “riot” squad. Guess there really was no great harm done. It's really amazing how little excitement there is here considering the circumstances. Much more serious crime occurs in any big city in the U.S. I'm sure! 

That's about the story for this time, My Darling, hope I have a letter or two from you tomorrow. Several are due! Love you very much or did I tell you that before? 
				
					Your,

						Dick

347th day					Wednesday, April 4, 1946

My Dearest Marian,

You are a long Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, March 24,25,26 letter arrived today. I have some gaps in my record now – March 18,19 and March 23. 

I certainly enjoyed reading about the week-end with the Folks; sounds as though you did have a nice time. I think I wrote last night that Mother's letter telling about the trip came yesterday (Tuesday). The beer shortage certainly sounds severe – it's things like that which make a man wonder whether he ought not stay over here for two or three years till things in the States get onto an even keel again – yes, you bet!

Something just happened to occur to me. Last night I wrote about the fact that I have been paid and that I received a money order for ninety dollars which I was going to send on to you. I'm wondering now if I explained that I had only applied for the money order and actually wouldn't be receiving it so that I could send it on for several days. I'm worried that what I said in yesterday's letter will make you think it should be enclosed in that letter and you'll think I forgot to inclose it or that it has been lost. Maybe I'd better start over again – I applied for a money order yesterday when I got paid, a money order for ninety dollars; the order will be delivered to me in ten days or so – I'll send it on to you at that time! Got it all straight? 

[handwritten note in margin points at paragraph 2 and says “haven’t I explained this well”]

		Your letter today was the one with the copy of the picture from the Newark Advocate! Golly, some surprise! I can imagine how surprised you were! Yes, I mentioned the fact that there was a photographer aboard that train to Kyoto –  the train which had the ritzy Red Cross club car. They certainly screwed the captain of the picture up, didn't they? “Heading them towards the States for return to civilian life” Yike!! If it were only so!! Didn't I ever mention to you about right after we arrived here in Tokyo, we traded in our long, brass-buttoned blouses (jackets) for the short “Ike” jackets? Bet I did tell you. Want to bet? 

		Yes,you certainly have my curiousity aroused concerning the package you have sent. I'll be watching for it! Let's see, “it's small and matches something you have”! That's easy – it's a pencil to match my pen! Right? Soon now you should be receiving the package I sent from here on March 6. I have some other things I want to get wrapped up one of these days; not many though, haven't been doing much shopping this last month! 

		I liked the news concerning the report which Bitty Biel saw in the Psychology Journal about teachers going to be released. Oh, Sweetheart, do you suppose it'll really come to pass that I’ll get out this summer sometime? A slight development today with regard to the discharge application – the memorandum saying that my records are clear came back from the office of the Headquarters Commandant. Now all that is missing is the letter from Prof. Kerr and I’m sorta of hoping that it will arrive tomorrow. I had the “dope” on his letter a little mixed up – when you cable that you had heard from Prof. Kerr, I assumed that he had sent his letter to you at Denison for forwarding to me. As I understand it now (from a note I received from Prof. Wright today) Prof. Kerr wrote to Prof. Wright who in turn wrote to tell K. what to put in the letter which he (K) will send directly to me. I have my fingers crossed hoping that Prof. Kerrs letter doesn't end up aboard a ship – why can't it be one of those lucky ones and catch a plane and be here in seven or eight days or so. I'm growing anxious to have this application on its way to Washington. 

		Well, the Officers and Ed got away early this morning. I’m afraid they’ll not have had a very pleasant first day because it was raining to beat the band when we awoke this morning (Ed had gotten up at a quarter after four). Of course, perhaps the storm didn’t extend very far south. Ed will be very disappointed if the weather was cloudy because from here to Okinawa, the plane would fly over most of land area of Japan to the south of us.

		I did very little all day long except write a letter to Professor Wright. I want to get a letter off to Dean Richards and to President Brown also sometime soon.

		Oh, yes, I received Newsletter No. 29 today and looked it over with considerable care. That’s the one for which you cut all the stencils isn’t it? They looked very nice, Sweetheart. It must be a very difficult job. Golly, a lot of the fellows are getting out aren’t they, but then, that’s certainly to be expected! I was a little floored by the number of casualties to date – 52! Seems like the number has increased greatly since I left school about a year ago although I don’t remember for sure what it was then.

		I also received today the copy of the Denisonian of March 8. It’s so much fun to have them, Hon. I look ‘em over about a dozen times.

		So you told Dean Richards I could teach the Astronomy, eh? Well, I think i could too, but not as well certainly as Freeman Miller will be able to. That reminds me, who is going to teach the Meteorology? Or is the Meteorology to be part of the course which the Dean is asking Freeman Miller to teach? Guess that’s the way it is. Wonder what Prof. Wright has had to say about this matter – he was always very anxious to keep Meteorology under the wing of his department.

		You’ll be interested to hear that I have some plans to do some more “field work” in California during these next few days. Right next to our office the Natural Resources Section has a drafting room; they have a very excellent pantograph which I want to make use of to enlarge a critical portion of the Halls Flat Quadrangle. Have you ever gotten a copy of the map? Well, it’s the area just east of Long’s Ranch – called the Murken Bench. You’ll notice the long north-south trending escarpment called the Hat Creek Rim? Well I suspect this is a fault scarp, but in the vicinity of Murken Bench the faulting is somehow complicated. One of the first things I want to do in the field is figure out the complications in that region (we could room and board at Long’s Ranch (I hope)). Marian, I think there are some extra copies of the Halls Flat Quadrangle in one of those shallow drawers on the left side of the big cabinet in my office. Why don’t you go over there sometime and look for one?

		It’s taking me longer and longer to write my daily stint. Am seldom in the ;letter writing mood anymore, it seems like. Are you bothered the same way? Let’s try not to let down though, Darling, because I know how much I need your letters and I’m sure you need mine too!

		Think though I’ll go over and take my nightly shower and climb in. Oh, yes, last night for the first time since I’ve been here I wore my pajamas. Have been wearing my “longies” to sleep in. The pajamas were swell. I only have the one pair along with me, but when they need washing, I can do it myself and they’ll dry over one night. So don’t bother to send any!

		Goodnight,Sweetheart, you know,don’t you, that I love you very much

									Forever yours,
			
										Dick
[written by hand]
Fri Morn April 5
Good morning, Dolly, and it is a good morning too! Am going to try to take some pictures this afternoon. Larry is taking the forenoon off!
						Love,
							Dick

348th day						Friday, April 5, 1946

My Dearest Marian Janet,

		Here we go again! Your letter of March 27th to answer tonight – it came in right on time didn’t it – arrived here the ninth day after mailing!

		I also had a short letter from Professor Kerr but unfortunately it was not the letter to go along with my application. That one,he explained,he had sent to the commanding officer of my unit the day before (that would make it the 27th). Now the question is – where is that letter. Did Professor Kerr mean that he had addressed the letter to the Commanding Officer, MID Mapping and Photo Section, etc. Think he must have because he would have no way of knowing about the fact that we also have a C.O. of our Company over at the Billet. Probably since one letter was mailed a day before the other they got separated – his letter addressed to Colonel Northrup as C.O. of the Section will probably come along tomorrow. Golly, I certainly hope so. I don’t know why I didn’t have sense enough to tell Prof. Kerr to address the letter to the C.O. of my section but to send the letter directly to me! When Prof. K’s letter arrives, I think I’ll send you a sable; you should have the cable before you receive this letter so you won’t have to worry about the situation explained above!

		It was nice that the Advocate was able to send you a large print of the picture. From your description of it, you must really be able to see all the details! Yes, the picture was posed. The sailor and I happened to be sitting on the davenport like seat and the photographer came along and asked us if we’d mind turning around and point our cameras out the window as if we were photographing the scenery. After he took the picture, he wanted to know our names and our home addresses; I wondered at the time if anything would come of it. The Red Cross must really have a very elaborate system for distributing things like these pictures to the “home folks”. I suspect they believe, and I think they’re right, that it is all very good advertising. Did Ruthie Outland post the picture on the Bulletin Board with all the rest of her Denison in the news stuff. Perhaps she didn’t because after all Denison wasn’t mentioned. I constantly forget that I’m actually a Granville draftee – is my name up on the service board downtown or have they abandoned that thing entirely? Is John Bjelke still chairman of the Board (not the service board, the Selective Service Board)? I’ll bet he is growing weary of the job. Has his boy ever been discharged?

Kind of an interesting thing happened here this afternoon. One of the boys who works in the Natural Resources Section drafting office which is next door to our office (it’s separated only by a line of bookcases actually) had found out that I was an instructor at Denison. Today he had a paper from his hometown – Rutherford, N.J. – and in a copy of the paper was the story of Dave Allison’s death in the B-29 crash! The reason that it happened to be in that paper was that Dave’s father used to be a minister at a church in Rutherford; the boy who showed me the paper used to attend the church when Mr. Allison preached there!

I can imagine that there was much excitement concerning the budget committee meeting and the visit of the special committee to Cleveland and the luncheon which the President had with the Trustees before the special meeting, etc. etc. Too dad I think that the President put himself in such a vulnerable position by attending the luncheon. I would have thought he would have purposefully avoided doing that very thing. I personally doubt it anything said or done at that luncheon meeting hindered the effort of the special committee at the later meeting, but nevertheless, it certainly didn’t look well! I certainly will be interested to see where it all leads – will be interested to see just how much of a raise the faculty is going to get. I know you’ll keep me informed!

You say you had Oscar cut your hair. Golly sakes, it looked to me in those pictures that you already had it cut pretty short. What goes on? Is another wave of the boyish haircut sweeping the country? Are the college girls following the trend toward shorter hair which was reported in an issue of Life which the Colonels brought back with them?

Did very little all day today. Hung around the office while Larry went for a jeep ride this morning and this afternoon, I went for a jeep ride. Got into some parts of the city I hadn’t previously seen and they were interesting, As long as one stays in the area right around our office and billet – an area say perhaps a mile square, Tokyo looks not unlike any other city in many respects; but once a person gets a little farther out, the whole aspect changes; there the buildings are low and run down, the streets unbelieveably bad and unbelieveably dirty. And, Oh, how crowded it is. So many of the sections of the city of this type have been burned that it came almost as a shock to me today to see one or two of the remaining ones. Another thing about the city – under the influence of the warm fun sun the smells are becoming even stronger; I hate to think what it’s going to be like when some of the great piles of garbage and dirt of various sorts begins to really get “ripe”!

Well we have plans tonight! Tomorrow being Army Day has been declared a holiday for all troops in GHQ! Nice, eh? So Larry and George and Bill Quackenbush (the Lt. from the office “next door” – the one who went to Stanford with Ed) and I are going on a jeep trip. We’re going down toward Mt. Fuji; we think we’ve found out where there’s a place we can stay tomorrow night and we’ll come back Sunday. It’s about a hundred mile trip down there and having two days will make it a leisurely one. We’re a little discouraged concerning the weather outlook – a thin haze of clouds obscured the sun as it was setting tonight. If it’s raining in the morning – we’re just going to turn over and go back to sleep. Hope it’s nice though – this will be a fine chance to get out in to the country and a chance to get some swell pictures!

Golly, I have a sore nose tonight – one of those mean little inside pimples about which a person can do nothing. Got something in my eye this afternoon too and couldn’t get it out. Finally after supper Larry managed to find the boulder and dug it out but my eye still hurts. I suspect the cinder or whatever it was scratched the eyeball a little bit.

This letter is going very slowly tonight. Do you know I’ve been working on it since about 7:15 and it’s now 9:30. You mention in your letter I received today that it went slowly too. I know exactly how it is. I find myself just sitting at the typewriter and thinking – thinking of you, and wanting to be with you – but not getting any words down on paper.

Well, I think I’ll call this all for tonight. Have to take a shower. Before I leave the office I have to write us out some passes for tomorrow and Sunday – will sign Captain Shute’s name to them. Don’t know what else to do and I’m certain it will be all right to do it that way.

And so goodnight, My Darling One, I love you with all my heart. I wish there was some new way of saying that because I want you to know it. I hope it isn’t going to be too awfully long before I’ll be able to whisper it in your ear – that always seemed most satisfactory!

						Forever yours,
	
								Dick
[Hand written]
Saturday Morning, April 6
Guess what – raining this morning! A nice misty, drizzling rain so that’s that – no trip
Maybe some other time!
			Love you though
					Your D

		349th day						Saturday, April 6, 1946

My dearest Marian,

	This letter will probably arrive out of order because it’s being written out of order. Yes, I’ll confess it’s being written on Monday afternoon. Here’s what happened!

	Saturday night George and Larry and I went to Hibya Hall to see a U.S.O. show called “Red, White, and Blues” – a negro band accompanied by a troupe of very good negro performers, singers, dancers, comedians, etc. After the show,we came back to the office and I fully intended to write the usual letter, but I wasn’t quite in the mood and I got to fooling around with my pantograph set-up trying to get it to working. Fussed with it for a hour and a half or so and by that time it was so late I decided to let the letter go over until Sunday morning. Well, as I said in last night’s letter (Sunday’s), on the way over to the office Sunday morning I picked up the mail and the letter from you concerning that Office of Education dope was there and when I got to the office I began at once to work on it! Last night I got Sunday’s letter written and that was all. So-o-o now it’s Monday and there’s some time to tell Saturday’s story which really doesn’t amount to much. 

	I put a note on Friday’s letter saying that we woke up Saturday morning to find that the rain was coming down and that put a crimp into the plans we had made to take a two-day jeep trip down to the Mt. Fuji region. Having nothing better to do, I came on over to the office and since there was no one working in the Natural Resources drafting room which is right next to our office, I decided I’d see if I could get the pantograph to working so that I could enlarge the portion of the Halls Flat topographic map which I’m interested in doing (told you about it the other night).
